Title: 2018
Date: 2018-12-31 08:22
Tags: thoughts
Slug: 2018
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="/images/1968%20earth.jpg"/>
  <figcaption>First photo of the Earth taken by NASA in 1968</figcaption>
</figure>

Last day of 2018. Snowed yesterday. Amazingly the snow accumulated
over night, and Shanghai is now looking pretty, covered in white, and
fresh air. Listening to Xmas music in Starbucks, with Noah reading his
comic book next to me. It's quiet. The shop just opened. I thought it
was already opened at 7, but it turned out we were the first
customers. I like it, peaceful and quiet, and holiday in the air. Sent
you a message on the way over. I saw the snow, and that is forever
linked with you. I can see your face brighten up and your prettiness
is captured in someone's camera. Yes, this is what you will like, and
I am happy to imagine how happy you will be.

What more can I ask about life, when I have this type of rather luxury
life, where the person I love, Noah, is next to me, and I am able to
spend some time w/ Dad? Though I don't know where you are anymore. At
least, we are in the same city, breathing the same air, seeing the
same snow, and in the same space in a sense that I know you are here,
and maybe, you will think of me, too.

End of 2018. Another year. I dont' get excited over holidays anymore. I
looked at my camera this morning. Even though I have just bought a
few more lenses, I don't think I'm becoming a good photographer
&mdash; I'm not taking pictures, and I dont' have fire burning inside
me. I don't have an audience in mind for whom I am going to show and
talk about these pictures, experience, and imagine her face, her
smell, her reaction. Without that, I feel nothing but emptiness, a
void. I know you are still there, like living in my soul. Yet, you are
becoming so silent that I'm afraid I will have moments I don't hear
your voice anymore in my mind. Reading the "One Hundred Years of
Solitude", what a tough book! I was constantly reminded of you when
characters were going through life with their burning desire and their
persistent, sometimes even rather strange, love. It's one thing to
live in love, feeling the anxiety, pain, excitement, tingling of skin
at a touch, quite another that each love ended in misery, or not even
having an end, just disappeared into a thin air, like nothing
happened.

How sad. I feel love is a thing God invented to tease human, that
gives you so much hope, makes you feel so full and fulfilled, will
fade, inevitably, and will change, inevitably. The best one can wish
is to turn it into a family-ish relation, and that's just, sad. What
happened to desire? to sensitivity? to yearning of seeing someone, of
being with someone, of be close to someone, of being known and
understood by someone, being thought of by someone, being reminded by
someone when the weather is cold, or hot, or rain, or shine, or
anything, just to be reminded, that the someone, is there?

I don't know why people can get over these moments so quickly (or so
easily). I really don't get it. These are the moments in life that
made life worth living, it gives you a memory to look back, to feel
yourself deep inside that you are still sensitive to a feeling, even
it is just sad, that you are alive. Moving on is indeed a wicked
word. It is not by anyone's choice. It's a choice by time, and time
goes on without concerning a bit of who you are, what you do, whom you
love.

So, 2018, like any other year, is nothing but an earmark of time,
ruthlessly passing by, announcing its existence, trashing everything
on its path, indifferent, cold-hearted, sensible.

But human, if deserves that name, has feelings, and should cherish
that, because that is all we have left. Like me thinking of you at
this hour, that you probably will never know, nor will you care
perhaphs. But that's all I have, all I have to stare at the face of
time, at the passing of this coldness, so not to be turned into a
being that myself will hate. You, keep me, sane.

I miss you. Go play in the snow. You will like it. You always do, and
that's how I remembered about you, and wish you remember something
about me, too.

Happy New Year, 美丽的人.
