Title: 2020
Date: 2020-12-23 19:22
Tags: thoughts
Slug: 2020
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="images/DSC_1240420.JPG"/>
</figure>

Can't believe how early this is &mdash; it's not even 7:30 in the
evening yet, and still two days away from this year's Christmas. Noah
has been at her place since last weekend, right after his winter break
started, which is fine, cause I do want him to have relaxing time and
enjoy himself. I found it that I miss him a lot when he is not here,
and sincerely wish him having a good time when he is not on my
watch. Sometimes, seeing a young kid being kissed by his parent in a
movie, I start to regret how fast time has flied by, and he is now
already growing up, and soon will be a man who may not want me to hold
him, hug him, and kiss him, anymore. Wouldn't it be sad? Sometimes I
wonder that I feel this way because he is now the sole gravity of my
life and my existence, even though I don't admit it.

Woke up from a small nap after dinner while watching the
projector. Life is good. Really, I can't complain this at all &mdash;
I have been taking days off, unofficially, for three days, just doing
nothing, well, not nothing, but nothing related to work, but only
things I do to please myself and to take care of myself &mdash;
exercise, read my books, listen to music, watch movies, chat w/ a
friends, sleep, nap... really, life has been treating me well.

I know 2020 is a tough year for many, especially for those who don't
have a job, which I can hardly imagine. But this year has been a good
one for me. I got my place here in this beautiful building, nice
neighbor who would drop me off some treats for me and Noah once a
while, and besides money, all are well taken care of, so I would feel
pretty safe if walking away for a while. Where was I this time last
year? Shanghai? Kunmin? or Huili? I was there, somewhere, traveling,
and was getting over the episode that was so difficult for me to come
out. I don't think I will ever come out. But it's actually the way I
want it, because I don't want to forget about it. It was the best time
of my life. I know one day when I look back my life, I wouldn't regret
what happened, nor the decision I made. However hard it was, it was
the right thing to do, and the best I could give.

Looking out the window, cars are much fewer in the last couple days
when days are approaching Christmas. The town hasn't been a busy one
anyway, especially since the students left home earlier this year. A
string of yellow lights are flickering w/ some cyclic pattern. I sort
of know which little house it's at. There is this old black woman
living there, and often I saw her sitting at the front the house porch
when Noah and I walked by. It's festive mode, I suppose, that she sets
up the string lights, though I don't know how many people really look
at it for more than 1 second, or notice it at all. But it's the
gesture it counts, doesn't it!? Sitting here, typing this, reminds me
the nights Noah and I went Japan together for the first time, 2012,
wow, nine years ago! Mine! Can't believe how far away it was. He was
only 4, and I was, well, almost 40. But I felt young, and looked
young, probably, too. Not like these days, I feel old, and look ugly.

I don't know how a person changes over the course of years. It isn't
pretty, I'm afraid. But everyone goes through this, unless you die
young. Many residents here are retired. Among them, they compliment me
that I am still young. I guess they are right. If adding 20, I will be
officially old. Yet, 20 years, is a long long long time. Deducting 20,
I will be only 28, mine! What a wonder age that will be! No way of
going back. So one day, when I look back at tonight, I might think the
same thing, deducting 20, I was only 48, how young!

I still don't know how to feel about this town. It's a nice place,
really. Everything is close by, convenient, and pretty good quality so
far. But it only feels home when Noah is here. And it feels just,
empty, when he is not. And there is no Bunny, no 猪猪，no 妞妞. It
feels, too quiet, sometimes, especially when the sun is setting, so
pretty, so red, burning fire in the sky. Yet, I could only watch, and
no one to share. Exile.

Haven't written things for a while. Thoughts come and go. Not at sharp
as before. It's a good thing, I suppose, that I' becoming calmer, less
angry, and smile more. It's a good thing. So this is 2020, same as
before, better than before.
