Title: A better world
Date: 2018-11-01 10:57
Tags: thoughts
Slug: a better world
Author: Feng Xia


<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="/images/cat%20evolution%20timeline.jpg"/>
</figure>

It has been a fascinating thought to me &mdash; is human the only
specie who thinks about leaving a better world for their children?
This perception, or statement, has been widely used in many talks,
conversations, lectures, debates, and propaganda, that by doing so and
so, we are to leave our children a better world. Or, often presented
in the opposite way, that by not doing so and so, we are leaving them
with a less world than ours, and shouldn't this give us, the current
generation, the moms and dads, a strong incentive to change!?

This is how NPR's discussion of climate change has presented
itself. On one hand, I have been talking to Noah about becoming a
vegetarian. By eating less meat (here I'm also blindly taking someone
else's statement as truth &larr; individually by eating less meat, we
could make our contribution to help the climate change catestrophe),
we are doing our share to help a change. But on the other, I was
thinking to myself, **why leaving them with a better world is taken as
an indisputable, wish!?** Don't we always argue that my definition of
_being better_ is not necessarily the same as theirs? Don't all parent
generation do this by imposing a superior knowledge that "I know what
is good for you", and gets back fired when their children grow up, and
the young generation simply ignores such advice or concern, and turns
out to be a life, sometimes better, sometimes worse, than previous
generation has predicted? Then, if we learn from the parental lesson
by treating kids as more of a peer than a brain-less walking body,
shouldn't we also apply the same principle in those grand topics, such
as climate change, that the children generation will, either live in a
world which is just different, or figure out a new way of living that
cope with the new environment, or even better (or worse) that their
definition of a _good life_ becomes a different version from ours?
&larr; what we value as being good, such as nature, specie diversity,
blue sky, clean air, wouldn't it be that case that they will start to
like indoor, AC-ed environment, artificial lights, virtual reality,
and so on (don't these sound familiar already!?).

I understand this picture sounds really disturbing. But I am not too
sure that what I wish to leave them is actually good. If borrowing
from personal experience of love and relationship, I would even argue
that being good is not the point &mdash; being what they want is
important. Hasn't there been enough cases we all know that being the
**good guy** gets you nowhere, but giving her what she wants (if you
are lucky to know, or smart enough to figure it out) is what makes her
happy. Isn't that the whole point of "leaving them a better world" is
implying that a "better world" will make them happy!?

But how do we know!? or do we know? If I take this to an extreme, how
do we know that they don't love, war!? or death!? or bullying!? Aren't
we again giving them a world that conforms with our principle and
preference, while depriving them an opportunity to develop
_organically_ of their own!?

But this can't be right. I do think there is a consistent principle of
good versus bad &mdash; clean air, good; smogs, bad. Safe environment,
good; discrimination, bad.... I'm speaking from my own education and
perception. I fully understand that Noah's generation will have
variation of many of these what I hold as true or dear.  But I still
believe there are things which are bad, regardless which generation is
in prime. War, for one, is bad. Human who are caught in it is
miserable, outright miserable.


What about ants? what's their good life, or better life? do they care
their children as we do? or they care them in a different way? This is
the same logic one debates about history &mdash; what we judge of
history is at the point of view of ours. Rolling back to their time,
do they still appear the same way!? and since going back in time is
impossible, then how can we reconstruct the "back then" faithfully?
Wouldn't there be unlimited number of factors that it is
mathematically impossible to do so!? If we know about butterfly
effect, then unless we roll back in time, the entire analysis of
history and their lessons learned would be nothing but a **subjective
opinion** by the author, wouldn't it!?

I don't know. The more I think about human society, about what is
good, what is right, the more I start to question whether there is a
**truth** that is irrelevant from our interpretation, or everything is
just a human imagination. Take the dollar for example. We all know
that paper money is nothing but, a piece of paper. But then, is gold
really better than this paper!? Not really. It has not so called
**intrinsic value** either. It is just a material, a carrier, that
many people agrees upon, that's all. It is always someone's dream that
you will find gold everywhere on Mars or somewhere, where it was
treated like dirt, but beings over there values, human waste, as their
"gold"! 

This is the same theme over and over and over. When US conquered the
West, native Indians couldn't care less about [gold mine in Black
Hill][1]. Yet, gold is values by everyone else. So there you go,
people poured in to take over the territory which were protected by
law (at the time) as Indian reservation. You can call them driven by
greed. I think **the essence of greed, is just, imagination**!! So
what they fought over essentially was a thing that lived in nothing
but imagination of a society (in our words, the modern society, but
really, is modern == more imagination!?), while yours (in this case
the local Indians) did not share the same imagination. But then, their
lives were destroyed because of it. How ugly! Honestly, I totally
believe that such imagination is both the core attribute of human, and
the core cause of everything terrible happening to human. In this
sense, I would even question whether propaganda is really such an
evil!? Isn't it just another form of, imagination!?

**Strength is always the weakness**. The more creative we become, the
more we are encouraging imagination, the more wonders we will see and
implement, then, the more nasty, ugly, terrible traits human will
develop, will demonstrate, will endure.

Is this good? bad? better? or worse?

[1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Great_Sioux_War_of_1876
