Title: A love story
Date: 2018-12-06 18:54
Tags: thoughts
Slug: a love story
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col l5 m5 s12">
  <img src="{{SITEURL}}/images/romance%20in%20tibet.jpg"/>
</figure>


It is quite an  unexpected book.... wow, while looking up its book
name, it turned out that it is actually called [A Romance in
Tibet][1], wow! I was making up this blog's name without knowing the
books is called a romance... what a coincidence!

But indeed, this is a romance, and quite a sad book. When the
airbnb host recommended it to me, I was like, ok, sure I'll read it,
but well, maybe. The first few pages were actually quite not getting
it. But that's how it turned out, that getting up 3 in the morning due
to jetlag, I got nothing else to read but this book, and what a sad
story it turned out.

You know, these days somehow I do feel there is something like a fate,
like an invisible hand that is guiding my readings. I came up with
these random books here and there, and for some reason their contents
will converge, will echo during the days I was living, and made me
wonder whether they were all put in my path by someone so I would have
read them in that order one by one, and gradually formulate my
thoughts so I think the way I think, and behave the way I do. Is that
so? Or, maybe it's the other way around, that the way I think and look
at this world make them interest to me, but not on other kinds?

I don't know. While reading it, I couldn't help to think of the book
written by Siqi's grandfather, also a narrative of his days in Tibet,
some sixty years later than this. Not that there were much in common,
but it made me to think of her, again. I wish there were time I could
see her again, and I wonder how her hometown is like &mdash; is it
also lying near these places in the book? and how that would have
shaped her ways, her views? I wish to know, but I guess I will never
have the chance to know anymore. This, makes me sad.

I thought of regrets in life, a lot, these days. Not that I have many
of them to brag and to lament. Yesterday while walking in the rain and
with all the neon lights reflected off a watery street, I suddenly had
a feeling that life is so hard, so hopeless, so not fun without her,
that death is indeed a relief, for me. I know it's the depression
talk. My life is actually not bad, comparing to anyone's, and I'm not
bad, comparing to anyone's. As a matter of fact, I should say that my
life is quite comfortable, nice, healthy, and so on... yet, all these
mean little to me, when my heart is empty, lacking a voice inside to
speak to, a person to think of, a love to give and to receive.

So that's the magic of romance. Watching people walking in this
massive metropolitan, I can't help asking how they go about their
life, if they also don't have a luxury of romance? Do they care, or
don't they? and how can they not to, by their own choice, or just by
nature of theirs? I want to know. I want to know how they can reason
with themselves so their life can go on, so that maybe I can check
myself from falling? But deep inside I also know, that even if they
bother to describe theirs to me, I would not take it in &larr; I
would have then argued that theirs is just, theirs, and that has no
reference to mine, besides, mine will turn out to be quite superior
to, most of them, for sure. 

How ironic! Now I sound like my mom, who is never satisfied w/ what
she has, and how much I have despised that!....I don't know. I'm just
getting old, I guess, so I am approaching, like a proximity curve, to
my parent's way, infinitely approximating, but will never touch. 

But then, there is romance, that always touches my soul, however
remote it had been, is always beautiful, makes me sad, makes me
wonder. Two souls connect, endure, and be apart &mdash; death is not
the end, if it breaks a love, because that love becomes, eternal.

[1]: https://www.amazon.com/Romance-Tibet-Chinese-Chen-QuZhen/dp/7223011173
