Title: Accelerated anonymity
Date: 2018-09-04 10:42
Tags: thoughts
Slug: accelerated anonymity
Author: Feng Xia



It feels that everything is converging. Sometimes I feel this is the
sign of aging, too, that by being in 40s and started to understand
just about every topic and have an opinion of them, every book I read
and every talk I listen to start to convey the same message and
contribute to my way of logic in a supportative way. This is both
assuring, and alarming &mdash; I enjoy the sense that my view finds
more agreement and seemingly more supports, but am deeply worried that
I'm being cherry picking of evidence actively so to find comfort and
enforce an already formed view. The the latter I am truly concerned
because this is exactly the behavior and symptom I am advocating
against. Yet, like everything in life, there seems to be built-in
contradiction in everything &mdash; that your strength must also be
your weakness, the most you think you believe and you want to promote
turns to be the exact opposite of your preach! I don't know. I feel
fundamentally I'm just not that smart, don't have much to offer, yet
want to feel important, to justify your own being, being valuable,
being _smarter than many_, being a good person, being a thinker &larr;
really, just whatever image I want to project of myself, that's the
deep down motives, yet I'm motivated by it exactly because I don't
have it, and chances because I'm not capable of achieving it (thus
don't have it yet), Therefore, the louder I'm speaking in that term,
the louder I'm really announcing to the world that I am not that. How
tragic.

This leads to the topic of what I want to discuss today, what I call
**acclerated anonymity**. There is a common theme wherever I turn,
that people in society has this anxiety to become **known**,
recognized, agreed upon. Why!? In this Japanese movie, [Tokyo
Story][1], a common acknowledgment of price one pays by going to a
big city like Tokyo is that you becomes insignificant, an ant. There are millions
of you out there, doing the same thing, living the same life, thus
yourself becomes a person without identity. This exact same feeling is
being echoed in this generation in China, and perhaps in previous
generations also when people were literally treated as trash and a
part-of some great-good. So tools such as social media becomes
immensely popular because we now have a channel to make yourself seen
and heard, and even applauded. We are all on a stage putting on a
show, and waiting for audience to show up, to admire us, to get some
eyeballs, and to get, if not financial benefit, at least emotional
benefit.

This same logic also intensifies the sensation of love, that out of
this billion people or million people, s/he finds me, and likes me,
and even adores me, what's the odds! what a fate! 

Then, there is marketing, images of a life that feels
ready-to-be-owned if only you put out your credit card, now, painless,
effortless, reasonable, entitled, of course. The book of image
explained well that this is only made possible with advent of mass
production that what used to be available only for the elites and the
rich, is now lowered in price that commoners can afford also, with a
bit alternation in form, in exquisiteness, in quality, in feel, in
originality, in its emotional meaning, and sometimes even in practical
usage. But no matter, there you have it, even as a mockup, as a
counterfeit, as a A货， as 山寨, it's better than none, than nothing
(actually, doesn't this feel like the POC valud I hold so dear!? that
the leap from 0 to 1 is qualitative, while 1-N is
quantitative). Fascinating.

But then, this anxiety, this feeling of not-being-recognized, is
accelerating. Going into a crowd makes you feel small; a growing
population, or just being in a country of large population, highlights
this instantly. So everybody is desperately holding on some identity,
internally and externally, to prove his/her existence. Therefore, the
LV, the vanity, the fashion, the wechat and your fans... but then,
what is the alternative? what is the other extreme? seclusion!? that
doesn't sound good either. And arguably, what about book authors?
those really master pieces, and music, and essays, thoughts,
philosophies... they didn't just write them for their self
entertaining, did they!? They wanted their voice and opinion to be
heard, to be adopted. So can I say they were also just as vain as us
who wants to buy identity with $$? It does seem that we are on equal
footing in this aspect. But theirs are, more complex? more advanced?
more influential? I don't know.

So indeed, this feeling/desire of being somebody is universal and
true. It must be part of a human mind. It's there, and we are born
with it. There is nothing wrong about this anxiety. It's as natural as
eating and shitting, just that it needs to be understood and handled.
My reading of all these phenomenon is that this growing intensity of
becoming known is exactly a mirror image of population expansion, and
progress of large scale coorperation that answers growing complexity
of problem human society is to solve (and doesn't this in turn create
more complex problems? how self-propelling this is!) But then, what
is the other extreme, that a tribe with a handful of residents, you
know everyone by name and their family tree back to a few generations,
even with blood ties all the way back!?  Does it then alleviate or
even remove such desire to **known**? and also, at least we will agree
that being known is different from being agreed with. But in today's
anonymity, these two are essentially the same motivation &larr; if not
seeking an agreement, then why bother to be known!? Then why, why we
are so eager to seek an agreeing voice? Is it because we just lack
self-confidence? why now? and did we have this crisis in a tribe mode?
What happens that your opinion was not agreed by tribe members? well,
I guess then you will be kicked out, and die, so there is natural
selection at work, haha. But then, today's society is practicing this
same act, that especially in a (closed-minded) society, different opinion
is not welcomed, is surpressed, is to be removed and its owner
silienced and even eliminated &larr; but this should not be justified,
should it!? 

I don't know. **The core has not changed, but the scale has
changed**. The growth of sheer number of population, the growing
interconnection from tribe to State to now Globalization, the growing
level of coordination in production especially in procurement and
assembly (I still firmly believe the logistics of physical goods are
soooo much more difficult than sending bits over a wire) &rarr; these
are driving what we feel as the acceleration of anonymity.

Is it bad? No. It's annoying, but inevitable. It's what makes our life
better than an ancient king, but also drives us nuts. Just like
everything else, this is another case of built-in contradiction of
existence &rarr; the strength is the weakness, the benefit is the
cost. No escape, always true.

# ah, hope

  
<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="/images/snapshot%20population.png"/>
</figure>

Here is a good news &rarr; there is hope!  If you live in <code>middle
income (XP)</code> countries, you are out of luck because population
is growing; if you are in <code>high income (XD)</code> countries,
your anxiety has a hope ~~


[1]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9us-TZ6aR74
