Title: Age and maturity
Date: 2018-01-07 12:33
Tags: thoughts
Slug: age and maturity
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col l6 m6 s12">
  <img src="/images/funny/fatal.jpg"/>
</figure>


I admire youth. It is a wonderful treasure to have since there is
nothing you did to have it, and nothing you can do to retain it. You
have it when you have it, then it's gone. But youth is also an awful
curse since you are cast into a spell of **hope**, which is often
viewed as a bless, the last straw Gods put into the Pandora's box so
to save human from drowning from the evil of chance (but can also be
viewed as an evil. go figure.)

It's admirable to quote classics and such so support a view you have
as if these classics add much credibility and value to your
opinion. Yet, I would have to argue that the same statement made by
these [老男人 on this show][1] bears sophistication that the junior
speaker in his 30s is unlikely to follow and understand &mdash; it's
cruel (and amusing) to watch the tease, but fundamentally I feel sad
that myself has reached the age to appreciate these remarks, and found
life and people to be such a messy business that they have lost all
the halo of glory &mdash; it used to be that people are genuinely good
and occasionally bad. No. People are genuinely practical and
self-important, and accidentally considerate. That's just, that.

[1]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eA7rKZbF_RI&index=1&list=PLATwx1z00HseXmeCbjbJRkaVO3088hC_A

# Love, expectation

I often look at Noah and wonder whether he is an odd case of growing
up in a slower pace than my expectation (or my unconscious reference
to other kids at this age whom I don't know much about but have drawn
an irresponsible conclusion that they behave _better_ or _on par_ to
what this age _should be_. How ridiculous is this statement if I'm
looking at myself from a third-party view! So even as much as I'd like
to take pride of my reasoning and logical thoughts, I myself fall as
victim of being thoroughly irrational, unreasonable, and unfair, to
Noah's case at least. So what credit do I have to criticize or comment
on others!?). But the truth is, I was acting just like him when I was
at this age, and I know too well how he is enjoying being viewed as a
little kid spoiled by mom and being the center of attention. He
doesn't recognize this, but the feeling is too good to be passed
by. And yet, if he is to follow the path I have come along, I know
what pitfall he is to have, and how eventually he is to understand of
himself (as I think I do of him at this moment) what he is really
doing.

After all, I believe nowadyas that everyone is living off an image
himself or herself is projecting &mdash; thus the happiness of being
in love is really that you are in love with the projected self who is
a state of love, that you are being kind, being generous, being the
center of a person's universe, and being appreciated for whatever you
do as all intentions are being interpreted in a positive way. Of
course, then the projected image does not fade, but the diff between
this image and day-to-day actions will start to manifest, therefore
fostering disappointment and frustration.

# A theory on frustration

Talking about frustration, I was thinking about this yesterday, and it
suddenly occurred to me, that the source of frustration isn't what you
expectation isn't satisfied. You could very well expect a thing with
your heart and soul, but it doesn't frustrate you a bit if you never
feel in a position of having the slightest control of the outcome!
Think about buying a lottery ticket, I don't think it's a frustrating
experience at all when you lose. The fact that you already know your
chance of winning is slim doesn't cancel your secret prayer of winning
at all. If we take one step further, **frustration is really caused
when you think (I know, you think) you know how the situation can be
better but turn out not to be**! If you ever think you have put into
effort of winning that lottery thus having a level of control of it,
well, you will be frustrated.

So whenever I feel the frustration towards Noah, it is really rooted
in my belief that he could have done better, and he is in the position
to make the outcome better. But doesn't it mean that eliminating this
belief equals to giving it up &mdash; that nothing he could have done,
so be it? This sounds not only discouraging, but impractical to
execute. One can't give up all level of control; otherwise, one would
have been paralyzed to walk in life since daily life consists of
millions of decisions one has to make, and the sheer mechanism of
making a decision consists of nothing but some sort of
confidence/judgement of being in control. Therefore, it is only
possible to assume that he is executing with a level of control
&mdash; thus, I was right to feel frustrated (whenever he _forgot_ his
stuff in school, like on the 2nd day of a new semester, and out of the
pile of Lost & Found in Wiley at the end of 2017 winter semester, he
found two jackets, one sweater &mdash; it was just sad sad sad!) Now I
guess the question becomes whether I should have assumed him having
the control over the things he is not performing well!? That I don't
know. It can be easily blanketed by the term of _expectation_
&mdash; no expectation, no frustration &mdash; and yet, the only
possibility of no expectation is when you don't care about it anymore.

This is a long iteration towards such a conclusion which have always
been obvious. Couples quarrel when they still care to resolve the
difference; indifference to each other is a death sentence to a
relationship. However, if this logic is sound, it means frustration is
a logical outcome of a relationship! This sounds terrible! Isn't that
any relationship is then inherently cursed? the cliché, of course, is
that the two need to learn to resolve this.

But this statement implies that frustration is bad, is a problem, is
hampering the health of love. What if we recognize frustration (and
same for other emotions, eg. anger, sadness, and so on) in a neutral
light that it is just part of human emotions, it exists so to express
a particular feeling, like a noun describing this is a cat and that is
a dog. There is nothing bad about it, just one emotion you develop in
a natural course, and need to learn to use in its context!

But what does this mean!? Is frustration then an emotional syntax when
I want to convey this feeling to the other person so she can
understand what my feeling is? It feels that way. But it also always
ties to a pointer of criticism that makes the other person
_hurt_. Because we have said that frustration comes from assumption
that one can control the outcome better. Well, the **one** is either
yourself, or the other person, isn't it!? If yourself is in the driver
seat, it's up to you to make it better (but it didn't), so you hate
yourself; in most cases, it's the other _one_ you feel could have done
better, thus this logically leads **criticism**. There is a third
option, that the other _one_ is some God, and this is nothing but
saying "Nah, no one has really the control", thus leading to fatalism
I believe.

Therefore, the only non-frustrating relation one can have is that one
party is taken as completly **incapable**! A pet, a toddler, or what
men used to view women in an inferior fashion (but this is just
wrong!).... hmmm, interesting.


