Title: AI
Date: 2017-06-05 07:21
Tags: thoughts
Slug: ai
Author: Feng Xia

AI is hot, and it is being discussed by too many ppl who have no
context. It is becoming just another buzz word rolling off your tongue
to make you sound sophisticated and smart. But no, AI is neither
magic nor intimidating. I think it is a great example for human being
to looking at things with a straight face, cut to the core, no more
BS, no more hand waving and using some abstract, ideological fuzziness
to fool ppl.

At least 20
years ago I have read a line about artificial intelligence, which
cleared formed my view on this &mdash; There are two ways to define
__intelligence__:

1. Machine emulate human's train of thoughts, and derives
   the same conclusion.
2. Machine ignores your human brain, finds its own way, and
   arrive the same conclusion.
   
The key is, <span class="myhighlight">the final result is the
same</spna>. So how can you distinguish the difference? does process
even matter? If we both doing math, `123 x 321`, human uses
**multiplication**, you know what? computers know nothing about
multiplications, to it, everything is an `add`, period. It will add
these numbers that many times, and much faster than a human can
do. The final numbers are the same.

That's be beauty of it, isn't it? If you just look at this example
closely, you will start to realize this isn't even a need for debate
&mdash; the core of multiplication, or the true concept of
multiplication, is addition. So putting the same lens over Alpha Go
and its recently victories over all these world's top players, I think
it is exactly because the computer implementation of Go cuts down the
BS around this game, which was used to be thought being an art of Zen,
so philosophical, so hard to master, hard to comprehend, and the
players are all god like beings. Well, here it is, computer engineers
peeled the onion and figured out the core of the game, and viola,
machine's power now shines because its brute force is million times
greater than a human.

And this same line of story has been playing all over the human
history. In speed, in energy, in any physical strength arena, we human
have already accepted defeat. The only cover left for our pride is the
so called **intelligence**, and losing this is making us feel
uncomfortable. This is unnecessary at all. Just because no one has
ever been able to decipher and define <span
class="myhighlight">clearly</span> what human intelligence is, it
doesn't mean we are superior to machine. I actually think this
progress in defeating the Go game is a wonderful lesson for human, for
anyone who likes and enjoys to wrap themselves around with mystery so
to feel good. <span class="myhighlight">There is a core logic in
everything</span>. If it looks great but no one can explain, it is
nothing but a superstition, a cover that's waiting to be lifted. 

Go must have existed for thousands of years now. And because the human
players stopped looking themselves in the eye and asking what is true
meaning of this game, the game progressed was helpless to be
duplicated, implemented, even taught. Until now. Alpha Go now helps us
to understand what is the **truth** of this game, what those
strategies really are, how they affect the outcome &rarr; I don't like
the word "scientific", but peeling off those BS is a great pleasure
for an engineer's eyes.

Machine will win. I don't think there is any doubt about this. And
they are the best assistant human have. It doesn't take human's BS for
an answer. Once it cracks the code, and I do mean **code**, its sheer
power will put us to shame. It's not a triumph of machine, but a
progress for human &rarr; one less domain covered by BS.
