Title: Airport
Date: 2019-12-23 12:04
Tags: thoughts
Slug: airport
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="images/kunming%20coffee%20shop.jpg"/>
</figure>


It must be how a king feels like, by sitting at airport, maybe sipping
a cup of Starbucks, and just watching people walking by &mdash; isn't
it exactly the emperor's dream, that to have all the women in the city
walking right in front his eyes, so to pick/judge the one he likes!?
That's exactly how I felt when I was doing that ~~ But then, it isn't
a privilege a king has, right, I mean, you could just get a stool, and
sit by a curb in a city, and watch people going by like that
also.. But there is sth about airport, you can see how much effort a
woman puts in &mdash; the dress, the shoes, the accessories, the air
she puts on, essentially, the image she is trying to leave to all
these strangers around her, interesting!

This makes me wonder, that being a super model must be extremely,
**uncomfortable** &mdash; after all, I think nobody in his/her common
sense will/should comfortable walking in front of some eyes whose sole
purpose is to watch him/her walking by, and on top of all these, the
models have to wear, well, nearly nothing, sometimes, and that must
take quite some guts to do so, and don't feel bad about him/her-self!
I don't know, maybe that's why super models all have low self-esteem,
and little self-confidence? So, no one is like to be watched, or
judged, even though, everyone knows, we are being judged, being
scrutinized, being compared, being watched, being always a person in
others' eyes, isn't this an irony!?

I like the ones who have nothing to pretend, but wearing the same
stuff that you can tell belongs to him/her, and sometimes even a bit
out of scene that they drag on a few things which don't belong to the
glass windows, granite floors, attendants in uniforms, but then, they
were just minding their own business, trying to figure out their ways,
in this confusing place &mdash; it is indeed a confusing place,
everytime I travel, I have to feel, anxious, feel uneasy, feel,
uncertain. Maybe it's just the crowd that makes me, nervous. 

Or, maybe, it's just the feeling of leaving, leaving a place, again,
that makes me, a bit, sentimental. I finally figured out, about
travels &mdash; I don't think I will like it at all, not when it lasts
over, say, a month &larr; there are a lot to take care of if you are
hopping from city to city &mdash; transportation, lodging, food, maybe
a few places you overhear and want to visit now, or a thing you saw
in a store that you want to carry w/ you, but then, thinking about how
many stops you still have, and the luggage you have to drag along,
that you let it go in the end &mdash; I think only when travels are
all arranged, that you will find it, enjoyable, maybe. But then,
doesn't it defeat the purpose of travel altogether!? I think so. It is
the uncertainty, the get away, that makes a travel, interesting, not a
fixed schedule, a known agenda, a sure plan.

But hopping on the road at a random will is a bit, demanding. I liked
it, not because it was fun, but I had a place in mind, which I have to
go, and see. To me, it's not a travel, a trip, but rather, is the only
way, to settle, with myself. 
