Title: Anonymous
Date: 2017-10-20 10:00
Tags: thoughts
Slug: anonymous
Author: Feng Xia
Summary: A poor-man's version my loved **La La Land** in which
    the perpetual theme of love, ambition, losing integrity in the
    face and name of opportunity. Why can't reality lose, once? 


<div class="slider col s12">
  <ul class="slides">
    <li>
      <img src="/images/Screenshot_20171009-081914.png"/>
    </li>
    <li>
      <img src="/images/Screenshot_20171009-082702.png"/>
    </li>
    <li>
      <img src="/images/Screenshot_20171009-082712.png"/>
    </li>
    <li>
      <img src="/images/Screenshot_20171009-082731.png"/>
    </li>
    <li>
      <img src="/images/Screenshot_20171009-082819.png"/>
    </li>
    <li>
      <img src="/images/Screenshot_20171009-082845.png"/>
    </li>
    <li>
      <img src="/images/Screenshot_20171009-082855.png"/>
    </li>
    <li>
      <img src="/images/Screenshot_20171009-082909.png"/>
    </li>
    <li>
      <img src="/images/Screenshot_20171009-082918.png"/>
    </li>
    <li>
      <img src="/images/Screenshot_20171009-082938.png"/>
    </li>
    <li>
      <img src="/images/Screenshot_20171009-082951.png"/>
    </li>
    <li>
      <img src="/images/Screenshot_20171009-083001.png"/>
    </li>
    <li>
      <img src="/images/Screenshot_20171009-083008.png"/>
    </li>
    <li>
      <img src="/images/Screenshot_20171009-083029.png"/>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>

I don't know why, but ordinary, common people with a sincere attitude
and a smile will always move me, better than any shining armor, social
status, halo on the head and a badge of prestige. I think the trick is
that they are real, they experience agony and frustration like
everyone else, and they hold up a hope as fearless, and more often
fearsome, to struggle, to wish, to work for it, to fall, and to fall
again.


It is not motivating at all. On the contrary, it echos what I feel
about myself and of life &mdash; endless tunnel to run through without
seeing a light at the end of it. What propells you to continue the run
then, if there is no one waiting for or to cheer you for your
footsteps? It's easy to throw the word **dreams** around, as if
everyone does have dream, I mean the actual, happening-when-you-sleep,
kind of the brain activity &mdash; even this isn't necessarily true,
right? What do you call a dream? A mental wandering astray from
reality? or just a different projection of the same _reality_?

Then, there is this hypothetical _dream_ that pumps your blood and
loads you with spirit so to overcome obstacles and curve balls. These
folks had dreams. It is admirable to live for something you believe
in. I think the trouble really starts when you start to find it difficult
to believe in _anything_ &mdash; when you can see there are always two
sides of every single coin that flies around, belief really becomes a
betting process in which you are convinced your odds are good.
