Title: Another Friday
Date: 2019-06-28 11:17 
Tags: love
Slug: another friday
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="{{SITEURL}}/images/incredibles%202.jpg"/>
</figure>


I don't know how to put today. Another Friday, sunny, humid, hot. 


This is the last day for many who were affected from last round of
layoff. Ran into a couple people I know yesterday and this morning.
Though I barely know any of them personally or through
work. Nonetheless, they are familiar faces, and seeing something,
someone, familiar to disappear from your life must be, and is, sad. I
sat down with them to exchange emails, phone numbers, talked to them
about the hirings our team is looking for, encouraging them to send me
their resume and I will forward them, and can certainly provide more
information regarding these positions and the project if they are
interested in &mdash; I just wish there were something I could do, to
make their life better? or to just soften the blow? am I again
guessing their feelings based on mine, which, on the bright side, is
called sympathy, on the flip side is called arrogant and even
ignorant? I don't know. It's just part of me &mdash; I hate to see
people around me sad, wish I could make things better, while, a lot of
times, I feel I'm the saddest among them all, though I appear to be so
upbeat and comfortable.

# m43

A lot things are going through my mind this morning, a lot of them. I
don't know why. M43. Uploaded Noah's graduation pictures and videos
finally. They looked totally fine when viewed on computer, but for
whatever the reason they looked totally crappy on the camera's
screen. Sometimes I even suspect that the camera's screen has such a
high resolution, that it makes the pictures look very much pixelated,
while in reality the photo is such a high resolution that they look
perfectly smooth and, **sharp**, when being squeezed to laptop size,
not to mention they will look simply gorgeous when printed on that
tiny 4x6. I have been struggling to find the same level of pleasure
shooting m43 comparing to the D70 or the D300 I recently purchased as
2nd hand from B&H. Somehow, I feel the Nikon pictures look so much,
photo-like, than M43's. Maybe it's because my eyes have been so used
to viewing these Nikon photos that even the M43's are better,
technically speaking, my brain doesn't appreciate them as such. So
that led to read and listen to M43 lens talks, discussions, and ebay
listings, even the thought of a switching back to some autofocus lens
made for M43 will bring back that photo look. Yet, these Noah pictures
looked just fine, even with my Nikon eyes, they look, very nice
&mdash; sharp, momentary, pretty. I think what I need is just a trust
to my gear, to my decision, and to myself.

# human and contradictions

Another thought. Human is full of, I mean, full of,
contradictions. Taking any so called train of thoughts, I find the
logic very shaky if to take a close examination of the reasonings. In
particular, I am referring to the common wisdom that is used to
support such reasonning &mdash; these wisdoms are used as if they
themselves are the perpetual truth (because they are so aligned with
your common sense). I was thinking, when, say, a manager of a team
makes a decision &rarr;

1. the Chinese team commonly justifies this that this is efficient
   &rarr;

2. then, if we continue this reasoning, a common wisdom says _there is
   no free lunch_, which we all agree, right, thus if we do gain
   efficiency, what price are we paying &rarr;

3. certainly, democracy, since not everyone is participating the
   decision. But, who says democracy is a good thing? Isn't this also
   a common wisdom? Because by positioning it as _the price we pay_,
   we are basing on the idea that democracy is, good. So here is one
   shaky spot. Let's continue &rarr;

4. what about 少数服从多数？ Isn't this also a common wisdom? but we
   have also heard the [tyranny of the majority][1], or even, 真理总是
   掌握在少数人手里, and with my getting older, I do feel the majority
   of the mass are indeed, pretty clueless and ignorant. So between
   these two already contradicting wisdoms, I'm leaning towards the
   latter &rarr;

5. but then, with such single decision maker pattern, wouldn't it be
   root of all troubles, say, we happen to have an unwise manager!?
   Even in technical term I'm constantly dealing with the single point
   of failure. Then, what's the remedy here? 

This reasoning goes on and on and on, and my point is, that these
wisdoms themselves are already the flip side of each other, thus
shouldn't be, and couldn't be, all true. Therefore, by plugging them
into a train of thought to support a view or a conclusion is both
convenient, satisfying, and **misleading**. I don't how to resolve
this pattern, sometimes I even suspect the entire language and
communication are built-in to have this pattern &larr; otherwise,
communication will not even happen. So it's like an inherent defect in
your gene. Nothing you can do about... well, just thought of another
common wisdom right here &mdash; your strength is also your weakness
&rarr; thus, this defect must also be the strength of human, I guess.

# late night show

Listening to late night in the sun is an interesting experience. She
has a good voice, really. I can't imagine her age can already speak of
life in such a fashion. But I admire this, whether this is a staged
show or out of her own mind. She has many good points, and she feels,
real. Listening to these can't help me make me think of you. It has
been a month now since I wrote you last time, the longest period I
have ever had. Not that the emotion has faded and you don't come
across my mind as often. No. You are there, still, all the time. I
can't tell how many times you were in my sleep, when I was in gym, or
playing guitar, or writing blogs, or cooking, or staring at Noah, or
drinking coffee in the morning, or sitting in the sun wishing you were
there, too... too many times, too constant, too real.

The feeling of loss is terrible, and I choose not to look at it, as if
it doesn't exist, as if it can be different, as if you are still
nearby, close to, and missing me, too. But it's ok. I still think the
reality of the outcome is better this way, even though the sentiments
are crushing for me... I'm too old for you, and I will never never
want to burden you to take care of me, when my body is failing, and
even my mind might be failing... No! It's not to leave you with an
image of health and all that... It's just practical. Aging is such an
unpleasant journey as I'm seeing it right now, that I would rather go
through it alone. Like a dark tunnel with a dead end, it comforts me
to have a company, sure, but once I die and you need to turn back to
find way out again, I'll be worried. So my love, this is better, go
have a full life the way you wish and can. Just letting me to keep you
on the mind is good enough for me.

On my dying breath, I wish the thought of you will be the last thread
leaving me. Let me think of the past, live in the past, and die, in
the past, because that's where you were.

[1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tyranny_of_the_majority
