Title: Asian Hate
Date: 2021-03-29 09:12
Slug: asian hate
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col l6 m6 s12">
  <img src="images/bertrand%20russell.jpg"/>
</figure>

This, is a genie in a bottle &mdash; the entire hatred now felt by the
society and occupying the headline news and congress's attention. The
world paid dearly for putting it back, putting aside the actual
justice each side claimed to be. Yet, Trump disturbed the hornet's
nest, and viola, now it's out again. This is really sad, sad times. I
need to read Dickens' [Hard Times][1], maybe I'll learn a thing or two
in this parallel.

Noah's spring vacation.  It's super peaceful and quiet when he is not
around, that I don't need to get up early to cook and be on the clock,
like gears being twisted and turned and driven by some other larger
gears. Weather is nice, and my new guitar string worked out
wonderfully. That, makes me really happy.

I firmly believe that the human language, being as it is, is, if not
the root cause of all these hatred and evil, is definitely an
accomplice. I think the thought of discrimination is built-in, more
native than language, because, after all, language is something you
learn w/ an effort, is a skill you acquire after you are born. But the
whole tendency of not wanting others to board the bus once you are on,
you are born with it, coming from as core as a DNA. Called it whatever
it is, selfishness, limitation, discrimination,
unfairness... whatever, really, see, this is exactly the problem I'm
saying, that the human language, at least the ones I know of (which
are only two, but representative at least, English being spoken by 70%
of the earth population), that you can't really come up a, **term**,
to describe this, thing, that you want to describe! This is crazy,
isn't it?


In my line of work, I have been constantly struggling with vague
definitions, terms which I call [buzz words][2]. But with growing old
and having more thoughts to this, what I would call, annoyance, I
start to realize this is everywhere, literally, everywhere. This is
not beyond being annoyance anymore. This is pure disaster because it
feels like a Truman's world, that you live inside it without having a
way to get out, and many others you live with don't even realize this
problem &larr; they genuinely believe the blue sky they see is real,
as that they firmly believe the buzz word they are using has a
definition. No, they are not! They are abstract, general, and could be
anything and nothing. They, in the end, don't define themselves, but
at the mercy of its interpreter. But we treat them as if they have a
soul, are independent, objective, stand on its own. It is this
illusion which makes this entire hatred wave terrible.

I have long been criticizing the term, _the people_, which you find
prolific among politician addresses. I would much prefer that they
were more specific in their talks, don't tell me what you will do for
the people, but tell me what you are going to do to solve my problem,
say, to fix my porch screen. But I understand as a mayor, a president,
they inevitably have to use a general term, thus the people seems
convenient and, correct. But, if top down has no choice but to be
abstract and vague, I'm totally alarmed by the **people** who are
talking and addressing from bottom up are also using the same
language, same concept &larr; avoiding details, but elevating their
agenda and message using the word such as fight for Asian, fight for
the Black people, or unite the Minority, that kind of thing. I mean,
just take a step back, Asia, is a continent, there are a lot of people
living their, they are all categorized as Asian. However, I know for
sure Korean don't put them in the same camp w/ Chinese, Japanese don't
agree w/ remarks if they were for China, North Korean probably don't
agree with any of the Asian population, and Malay? Indosian? Indian?
Thai?.... the list can go on and on and on and on... so my point is,
**there isn't an Asian**! There isn't such a thing as Asian. There is
a group identity that billions share. Therefore, speaking of Asian
hate and Asian protection are, in my opinion, equally false. You can
attack an individual who fits your profile of an Asian (hair, skin
color, glasses), but fundamentally you simply don't know. Therefore,
such an attack, or hate, isn't even targeting Asian &mdash; it's just
hate, a feeling that could turn on anyone, anything, without being
bothered whether the victim is Asian or not. In other words, what
Trump released isn't a prejudice against Asian, but hate and anger
that have kept put in this society. Asian is the new victim, just as
Jews were the old ones. Do this, swapping the word "Asian" out, and
replacing it with any other noun you can think of, it doesn't make it
right, either, and it doesn't change the nature of such act at
all. Therefore, it is this uprising violence we condemn, and no one is
immune once violence becomes acceptable.

The whole [capital riot][3] trial was disappointing to me, because it
was so determined by a political view, but lost the view of condemning
violence. If a violence at such a scale could be pardoned, well, what
else can not be!? Arguing about who is right or wrong using motivation
as defense is pointless. I have to agree w/ Russel that ["Fear is the
parent of cruelty"][4]. Yes, violence, hate, attack, are all faces of
the same evil, fear. It is fear that now circulating in this air.



[1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hard_Times_(novel)
[2]: {filename}/thoughts/innovation.md
[3]: {filename}/thoughts/capitol%20riot.md
[4]: https://users.drew.edu/~jlenz/whynot.html
