Title: Attention
Date: 2021-01-24 10:25
Slug: attention
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col l6 m12 s12">
  <img src="images/IMG_20210123_175332.jpg"/>
</figure>

This is a curious thing. By sort of a pure accident, I haven't been
looking at the 朋友圈 for a while. I don't even know how long it has
been, weeks? Not a whole month I'm sure. But here is a thought just
occurred to me &mdash; during this period, there are many of my
_friends_ whom I now know nothing about. I mean, I don't what they
did, or said, or thought, nothing &larr; because it used to be that I
got their **news** from the _broadcast_. Almost like a personal radio
station that you need to tune in in order to listen. Well, the flip
side is also true &mdash; if you want to shut them off, just don't
tune in.

This makes me wonder why so and what it means!? It used to be that I
thought the people 做 when they don't reveal their thoughts but making
you to guess. As a matter of fact, this is a common conversation I
have w/ Noah these days, that unless he can voice his idea and want,
I'm not a mind reader. So this same cliche goes w/ many sad love
stories when the two stop communication, usually by the girl first,
that the poor guy _has to guess_ what she wants, that's when the
relationship went haywire, in my opinion anyway. But now, w/ this 朋友
圈 thing, I wonder whether it is yet another **human weakness** that
everyone, I do mean everyone, is hunger for **passive
attention**. That's right. Instead of asking for attention which we
were told and educated to be a bad behavior, yet we want attention,
want to be in the spotlight. Thus, we take the approach of actively
broadcasting (I call it broadcasting because it, at least, pretends
that it's oblivious to audiences, "Look I'm talking whether there is
someone listening or not"), yet our satisfaction is when the other
person _tune in by their choice_! So in this sense, we are just
playing a victim role that I'm innocent, I don't want to behave badly
(eg. asking for attention, in this case), well, since you tuned in,
first of all, if there were fault, it's yours; second, I get the
recognition, even falsely, that my message must be good!


Hmm, interesting. So it's even about attention, now to think of
it. It's really about fundamentally two things, which both I found in
Noah, therefore it must be a built-in human traits, not unique to
anyone, but universally true to everyone &mdash; fear to take
responsibility, and eager for comradeship. The first point, I feel, is
a bit exaggerated. I don't think the word "responsibility" is
accurate. I mean, by being passive doesn't really mean being
irresponsible. Just to think of the alternatives. What? Shovel your
ideas down to someone's throat? That's not pleasant either. So it's
better to be in the passive mode &rarr; waiting for others to
discover. But, this reminds a conversation I had w/ my roommate years
back, that his idea of life is to announce his virtue in loud speaker,
not necessarily to magnify it in a loud speaker, but at least not to
bury it in a sand; mine was the burying it in a sand, but hoping the
diamond, by being a true diamond, will shine through, maybe taking
time, but it will, right? Well, that was 22 years ago. Now at this
age, I'm not so sure that a diamond will eventually shine through. I
guess I'm still considering myself as a diamond, which may not be
justified, but nonetheless, I haven't yet given up hope that this idea
of life is worth my time.

So back to this broadcasting mode. It isn't that people shun from
responsibility by not making a direct message to you. Well, in a way,
yes. By not speaking directly, say, face to face, even virtually, it
does take away the responsibility of your remarks! But let's not be
too strict on this. It's not ideal broadcasting, but it's not a crime,
either. But the second point, the comradeship one, isn't it the same
as the cliche that 人类是群居动物？ Even if I take this point, what
that means? It sounds obvious that we, from the animal phase of human
history, huddle together for safety and survival. So such trait
continuously dictate our life. Is it so?

When I was speaking to Noah on similar things, I used to think that
it's about self-confidence, or in adult's term, independent thinking,
that you are confident and have a willingness to make a conclusion and
judgment of your own regardless the popular sentiments (well, even in
this sense, what's the boundary between independent thinking and being
just arrogant!? Don't those BS policy makers, such as the recent 返乡
one, pretty _independent_ in this sense that s/he didn't care a whim
of what the public's daily life would be like w/ this BS idea!? But we
won't value their independent effort, do we?) So, if we can't really
draw a clear line between them, wouldn't it be a bad idea to solicit
2nd opinion, in this case, seeking recognition, seeking agreement,
seeking nods, from someone else, like-minded, so to confirm that my
idea isn't off the track, that it has merits, and it's a good one,
just like myself has thought so!? Isn't it nothing but natural!? Or
even, necessary!? Don't all dictators all make decisions without
listening to others, so that they had full, maybe too full, of an
independent thinking, while lacking agreements? Therefore, it feels
not a bad idea at all to post 朋友圈， as it's not a mode of 做 at
all, but a good strategy to follow, so that you won't become more and
more, arrogant and narrow minded.

Hmm... But here is another wrinkle to this. When everybody is radioing
his/her voice, not only the like-minded will be able to find each
other, thus forming so called _interest group_, but it always implies
a **one-way** communication &mdash; as mentioned earlier, it's a one
way from them to my ear, _I'm broadcasting sth whether you listen or
not_, and me the audience can turn you off without ever telling or
saying why.  Therefore, the entire communication in this mode is
always, lacking a feedback loop.  If so, it means the system is not
stable, and it's prone to oscillation leading to spin out of control,
in theory! In a face to face talk, the feedback is the other person's
face or hand, or the awkward silence in the air, thus speak always
means being sensitive to the other's reaction. Now being behind a
screen, such social media took away the feedback mechanism, well, it
didn't take away the feedback cause you can still see the comments, if
you will, but making it irrelevant if you choose not to respond! So
it's like making the feedback optional in a control system &mdash; and
that's the difference, and the danger.

A bit detour to this social impact. So back to 朋友圈. What I was
really thinking was that who are still my friends? If s/he were my
true friend, wouldn't it be that s/he will talk to me, send me a
message, directly, instead of waiting for me to _monitor_ your life
through this radio? I would think so. I say Hi to my friends when I
miss them, I ask them how they are doing, want to connect w/ them. I
have things in life I want to share, want to know theirs, too. Mostly
importantly, being friends, it's a level of intimacy we share, more
than a radio set, right?

I think so.
