Title: Be nice
Date: 2019-12-20 21:37
Tags: thoughts
Slug: be nice
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="images/be%20nice.jpg">
</figure>

Can we be nice? Can we be nice to, strangers? Can we be nice
strangers?

Coming downstairs to grab a bottom water from a nearby convenient
store. There was a little girl w/ her mom, probably 8 years old,
walking in front of me, and she went out the build door first, then
held it open for two other girls behind them, then me. I thanks her
for being so kind.

But, they walked behind me in the same direction to the store, and the
mom just wasn't happy at all, "Aren't u stupid!? Why did you do that!?
They got hands, too, you know!? Why did you do that!?.... " So it went
on and on and on... what's wrong w/ these people!? I couldn't take it
anymore. I turned around, thanks the girl again, and said to the mom
"She did a good thing, you know? You should give her a compliment." I
also wanted to refute her of her idea of "they also get hands" line
&mdash; well, technically, just about everyone except a few
unfortunates have hands, legs, (brain? cough cough...), but it isn't a
reason that we should be kind by holding door for the person behind,
is it!? 

I don't get it, really. I actually thought China has improved quite a
bit this time from what I witnessed. For one, cars are now forced to
yield to pedestrians! That is really nice! But then, once a while, I
can still feel the strange look when I'm being nice to a stranger, or
myself being a nice stranger. Why? If the girl is to grow up under her
mom's ideas, well well, I'm pretty sure she won't be a nice person as
she is right now, and, I would even speculate that her mom, by her
comments on this event, isn't nice at all, and is not deserved to
receive a kind gesture either... well, this is a bit too harsh. Let me
take this back. I disagree her comments on her daughter's kind
gesture, that's all.

Went to a mall today. Oh My God, do u know how big it is!? It's
enormous!! I guess it's like 10 football fields combined, isles and
isles of stuff, a lot of stuff, and a lot of the same stuff... it's
just massive, and super tiring! People literally ride bikes in it, or
on the segway! Walking from end to end is like 2 miles long at least,
and each floor has like 16 of them!! Then there are 5 floors, nearly
all filled!! Oh mine, I have never seen such scale before, simply mind
boggling! Searched for the canvas bags I want, but didn't find any,
too bad. It's not in fashion, I suppose. Got a old looking oil paper
umbrella that I have always dreamed about!!! Awesome!! Though it has
some drawings on it (two styles, one w/ a dragon and a phoenix, one w/
a white crane), it's ok. I joked the one dragon-phoenix one is either
for a king or a 太监, and the crane, though means long life, makes me
feel like a wish to die, haha. So I got a dragon-phoenix one. Now,
let's pray for some rain ~~

Got super frustrated over work tonight. Shifting branches is creating
a nightmare, but that's technical and I can handle that. But what
pisses me off is that no one is giving me a straight answer &mdash; I
emailed my opinion and raised concerns, and sometimes just a straight
yes/no question. Guess what!? They continued on what they were doing,
as if my concern had no effect, and for an email to question a merged
request "Did I miss some information on this?" I got is "we will
discuss". Fxxx that. I want a straight answer, not "we will discuss",
so I can have info to do my job properly. This is very screwy. I won't
bother till all shits hit the fans, and I'm back in the office again,
that I think I will have some serious, unpleasant conversation w/ some
folks regarding this project, and probably to ask them to remove me
from this project entirely &larr; I'm getting really fed up now.
