Title: Books
Date: 2021-12-28 16:40
Tags: thoughts
Slug: books
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="images/DSC_1280576.JPG"/>
</figure>

Going through the books I have on the shelf, pulling out some which I
feel could live without, putting on others which I feel they deserve
the elaborated attention being on the fancy shelf... all of sudden,
this idea daunted on me &mdash; why type of books are more long
lasting than others?

Certainly there isn't a single answer. But there is always one one
could have. I like **old books**. They are not necessarily classics in
any measure, but just having a senior age seems to spell well for me
than the youngs. The youngs usually have a much cleaner, and most of
the time colorful and eye-catching, jacket than the olds. But I found
myself tend to pull them off the shelf less hesitantly than the
olds.

For one, I would admit these old books have probably better collector
value, whether they were good book back when or not. It runs like an
antique &mdash; the older it is, the more $$ in essence it redeems if
ever being traded. These old books, some published before the 1900,
are heavier,  poorer in condition &larr; papers turning brown, jacket
loose, some have a falling-apart binding altogether... I read some of
them, and most of the contents are not impressive much, either... but
somehow they hold a charm, a charm I start to wonder what it is
besides its rarity perhaps?

Had a chat with 小舅 this morning, part of the conversation was about
aging. Tie it with this book topic, I think this is the same question
one could also ask about an old person &mdash; what's the charm? No
more look, no more physiques... wealth? nah... knowledge? perhaps not,
either, cause the young folks probably don't care what your so called
knowledge or life experience as you would like them to, just take any
son or daughter for example, otherwise parenting would have been a
super rewarding experience with a permanent fans standing by... but we
all know, instead, you likely have a permanent foes ready to fight as
the slightest criticism... so, what is it then?

I think, for these old books, a big part of their charm lies in the
fact of a God's view &mdash; same as learning a piece of history
(well, indeed many of my books are about history), that you already
know the plot, the movie's end, but you are going through them yet
again, with a satisfaction that you know what is coming, thus feeling
superior... but it is more than that. If history book can be viewed as
a story telling, then there are other books which are purely
interesting because its content has been swiped off the history's
horizon, like the books on the old south, of American communities of
all kinds of (to me) strange religions, beliefs, commune
living... they are like fantastic shows at a market meet, some bizarre
snake woman or oriental tribe man... just an awe effect, a
stimulation... but again, because the length of time in between the
book's birth and my time, I could view it both feeling the excitement
in such adventure, and the security of an untouchable &larr; whether
it was a dangerous journey or a cruel reality, it's a text of life
that echos but forever remote.

Also with aging, many of the sayings back when have been **distilled**
to the point that they are either still well alive, or dead. Thus,
equipped with what I know today, it becomes much assuring when I
appreciate a view by the author, whereas the newer books bear the risk
that many of their topics are well contemporary and even familiar, but
my mind of their content is just as confusing &mdash; I think in this
sense, I read to seek an answer, an opinion, that would help me to
understand the topic, but new books tend to present yet another view,
thus adding another layer of complexity to the understanding, while
the old books can be read in a black & white scope... isn't this then
lazy on reader's part? or just a deep rooted urge to have an
explanation even though it's rushed and even false? I fear so.

Thus, contemporary topics, before they could themselves turn into
history, carry less weight than the olds. This can be testified
further by all the social media posts one does or receives &rarr; few
survives for more than 24 hours even. These should not be called
"information" at all. They are digital comets, flashing by, and if you
happen to see its return, I doubt you would even recognize it's the
same one! So sadly, many of the technical books fall into this
category, books on a programming language, on a technology, at lease
Reader's Corner carries a section on Math and Physics, I guess these
are more endurable than any of the IT stuff.

So, what is lasting? A novel, a drawing, a story, a journalism of a
visit of a foreign place (if it's more about the feeling of the
author than the actual geo facts).... in the end, it's the human part
of the book, the emotion, the psychology, love, hatred... those, that
are still make the book not only relevant, but good. It's a cliche
that human haven't changed over these thousand of years, what the
Greek felt about love echoes verbatim today. So it is. Readers change,
generation after generation. So are the authors.

If you want to leave something behind your life, if you do, avoid
being a commentator of contemporary events, dig deep, find the
feelings, find that human that is not just inside the story, but
inside yourself... if you get lucky, which suspect the moment would be
rather scary and agonizing if not outright devastating, that book will
hold its value well, with ages passing by.
