Title: Boston and other thoughts
Date: 2019-08-21 10:44
Tags: thoughts
Slug: boston and other thoughts
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col l8 m8 s12">
  <img src="images/such%20a%20beauty.jpg"/>
</figure>

Trip to Boston was nice, especially when I saw old friends &mdash;
uncle Tam, Eddy, Bob, Doc Shen and his parents. Not that it brought
back many memories, but to see that people who have been in my life,
of whom I wish to have a good life, are doing well. I think somewhere
I have said it, that it matters more to me that the people I care
about are living well, than myself does the same. 

I don't know. I have many thoughts this morning, but they come and go,
and hard to put them down. I have been thinking a lot of the last ten
years, the years since Noah came to my life. What a change! It's easy
to say that change was taken because of him. Of course he was a major
force behind these changes. But I can't help feeling there were more
&mdash; some you can call destiny, some I can't describe what it is,
like a million turns I took, or anybody took, in this course called
life, that a step in this direction will lead you down to a path that,
when looking back in this time span, say, 10 years, will seem so
dramatic and different. But then, like the unbearable lightness of
being, no one can tell the cause, no one can predict the future, and
no one, can go back in time.

A nice day today, I mean, weather wise, not too hot, nice breeze. I
like this breeze. Sitting outside typing this, makes me, happy. On the
way walking over, an idea popped to my mind &mdash; am I a peculiar
person? I mean, why am I thinking things in such a way that is so
different from, others? Watching people walking by at work, they get
excited by, say, the new garage, new seating space.... then, they are
all good at keeping a meeting schedule, can attend those meetings even
in some _odd_ hours, or grasping an idea of a new project
quickly. How? I mean, honestly, I just can't handle that kind of
things. In a small group, among close friends, left in a corner even
in a crowded market, I could perform well, think well, write
well. But, anything that requires a fixed schedule of routine, I seem
to have serious trouble to cope with... well, this is not true,
either. I was running the meetings w/ SH team just fine, and it was
not only productive, but I could say they were the best meetings I
have been in since being here &larr; most others are just routine
bearing a name so called "scrum", but we were only following the
format rather than being practical and, useful. Well.

Where should I go next? what should I do? Had a lot of dreams the last
two nights &mdash; cambodia, singapore... I dreamed a life somewhere
else, anywhere, but here. I know I want to get away, but to where?
Anywhere without you will be the same to me, equally dull, equally
colorless, equally, unhappy. I miss you. You are nowhere to be found,
but I still search for you, in dream, in mind, in the darkness of this
life. If there is such a surgery, like a heart surgery to cut off
those cancer tumors, that just go in and cut off the piece that saves
you and these memories, will that end all these, feelings? I feel I'm
just groping through day by day, aimless, like a robot, picking him
up, sending him off, watching the time go by, watching the cloud go
by, watching the people go by, watching myself, whatever is left of
me, go by.

How funny! There are two people sitting behind me, and one is
introducing the Lenovo Open Cloud, haha. This is truly something I can
speak of, and should feel proud of. Maybe that's the peak of my
profession career, by publishing two reference architectures as first
author (well, if not to say, the only author cause I wrote 99% of the
entire content). I don't know. I just feel there is something else I
can do, something else I want to do.

What is it? Maybe I should become religious, so I can say God pls tell
me, and he will show up in the sky with him booming voice, and gives
me some directions, like "go there", "turn left".. if only, there were
such a being, and such a voice, and such a play... but if that ever
happend, I know that will not help me at all, but I will look at
him/her, and say, "what the fxxk is this? and who the fxxk are u?"....

I'm just, hopelessly, angry, and having zero belief in another being, now.


