Title: Bucharest
Date: 2020-01-26 11:55
Tags: thoughts
Slug: bucharest
Author: Feng Xia

Luck to have this business trip and jumped on it at the last
minute. Even luckier that I switched seat on the way here at the last
moment, literally, when I found out I were going to seat next to
someone I didn't want to entertain, and it worked out quite nicely ~~

Didn't know what to expect, except that I'm very much curious of the
country and wanted to check it out. And the most impressive thing I
found, people!! The people are just simply, beautiful, I mean,
cosmetically, by their looks!! It's rather stunning that so many guys
have grown big mustache, young and old, and boy, don't they have a
style!! So many of them walking in that fancy mall next our office
look like Beckham!! No kidding.

And don't even get me started on girls &mdash; they are simply,
gorgeous! Every one of them is like 6ft tall, long straight legs,
beautiful beautiful hair, and the face! Oh, my, God! I took a random
bus from Downtown yesterday after walking for so long and got really
tired. So hopped on Route 335 which took me all the way to this giant
mega mall, which is the perfect spot for people watching. And let me
tell you, you walk around in the mall, and once a while, I mean, like
every 30 seconds, you get a girl walking towards you or one you see in
a distance, and honestly, my heart just **skipped a beat**!!! No
kidding!! They are incredibly, goddess like!! And many many many of
them have a really cool way to dress. Talking about 文艺青年， I
bumped into a random street yesterday, and everyone I ran into, had
this cool style, guys and girls, and the type of style looked, so
natural on them, that I started to realize that this isn't really a
style, per se, for them, but just their ordinary way of dressing
&mdash; not fancy, because the whole country in general, is pretty
poor, but because they possess such a tall body and cute face, that
this style simply works.

And buildings. I have never been other part of Europe, so have no
reference. I have to say, the big block buildings, whether it's a
Roman style, or Communist concrete squares, are just magnificent! The
scale, the way it conveys its message, and the facades!!! I can't
imagine how they can produce, and be willing to decorate all
buildings, whether it's a palace, or a church, or just a residential
place, w/ soooooo many facades!!!! So many!!! It's simply incredible
how much extra work doing this must have added, all for, appealing the
eyes!!! Bravo!! Really. I always say that you need to live a in
beautiful place and surrounded by beautiful people and things, because
it's like a training to your eyes and your mind &mdash; the look, the
way, all become a part of yourself, even when you write code, not to
mention, when you dress, when you buy clothes, when you look for a
wife ~~ and this city has plenty beauty to offer, overwhelmingly so. I
love it!

Then, regardless so many nice looking buildings around, many many many
of them, I'm talking about like streets and streets and streets of
them, are in such a poor condition, that I didn't see a single soul
living there! Most of the street level units are definitely not
occupied at all &mdash; broken windows, boarded doors, graffeti
everywhere!! I don't know how to describe this feeling when you were
talking in them &mdash; it's like the entire city was in foreclosure,
in a massive massive scale! It's simply mind boggling to witness how
such a beautiful country/city are like this, when their beautiful
women probably live in this, when they have such a potential, and if
given a chance, they deserve so much more than what they have!!

I don't know why so, I don't know whether a change is coming, or
possible? I suppose everything is about politics, and there must be a
reason these places are so not maintained. Nonetheless, I wish this
country, and their people, a bright future, a wealthy economy, a
comfortable life, so to match their good looking citizens. Really,
sincerely.

Went to check out the train station yesterday. It got me curious after
the young guys in the team said that they would receive packages from
home when they were in college, **and every week** !!!! According to
them, there is no cafeteria, no place to cook, and the dorms are sooo
darn cheap that they had to live off their mom's cooking sent by the
train or bus via the conductors, **every single week**!! This felt
literally, like a long military supply line, in peace time, for
college kids!! How fascinating!! I wanted to check it out, and was
genuinely expecting a large group of young looking college kids being
there to pick up their stuff. But well, not exactly a large busy train
terminals, more like the same size and look of Boston's commuter
rails, almost the same size as the South Station, I would say. And get
this, the only few trains I saw either departing or were waiting, had
only 4 carriages!! It's really really short! and the platform? Was
long!! Like designed for 30+ carriages, but the only thing
running? 4. Hahaha.... interesting!? I don't know why, and I didn't
really see any mass move of picking up packages kind of deal. Maybe
it's Sunday? I don't know. I just found it rather unsustainable,
right, that you, as a young hungry college person, would have to live
off a long supply line from home, every week, or what? Starve to
death? Man, that's something, isn't it!

Then walking around from the train station, bumped right into a local
grocery farmer's market, and picked up the best meal I had in
Bucharest from an open BBQ stall &mdash; no one there speaks a word of
english! Luckily a guy waiting in line was able to speak some, and he
helped me to get my order in. It took me a bit hand wavings to order
my wine (and Romanian word for it sounds like `win`!! Pretty
close.). Sitting in this, plastic tents across to the BBQ grills,
among a few tables of old local guys, the food felt incredibly
delicious, and excellent!! For 25 Lei (the local currency of about 4:1
to USD), this is a treat ~~~ Later, two old guys walked in the tent,
and couldn't find a seat to sit. So I waved them to join my
table. There I was, sitting w/ two guys, whom I felt like walking off
a Romanian movies &mdash; I don't know why, every single old man I saw
here make me to think that he is a train conductor!!! hahaha... I
guess that's the most frequent appeared roles in those Romanian WWII
movies, you know, a white haired train conductor who is also an
underground fighter.... it's just a very interesting feeling sitting
there, watching them talking, they ignored me, and I didn't understand
a word what they said.... actually, the guy sitting across me looked
like a college professor in US, very cool looking I would say, for his
age... sigh, if only I could get old looking like that... let's wish
for it ~~ 
