Title: Burned out
Date: 2018-09-18 10:36
Tags: thoughts
Slug: burned out
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col l4 m4 s12">
  <img src="/images/summer%20school.jpg"/>
</figure>

I feel caught in a turmoil the last couple weeks that I had to deliver
this BOM while I know nothing about, and had to deliver a schedule
which many works have not even been defined, to determine a list of
designs which no one else is looking at or willing to do, and to
decide what to do with my life which has rekted in pieces, and I have
no clue of what to do w/ it.

I miss Dad, miss her, miss the days I was happy, miss when Noah was
little, miss biking around the Charles and watch the sunset, miss the
moment we were sitting on top 南山 that evening, watching the city
lights and breathing the summer breeze, miss the time I was sitting on
the rail overseeing the unnamed bay in Kobe, while everyone was
packing in excitement and in sadness of leaving, miss the time Elaine
introduced me this beautiful song then which till today I know not the
name nor the singer, but its tune by heart, miss the mini karaoke in
Shenzhen's arcade when she sang a song while I was listening, miss the
minutes I was leaning on Ray's tomb in this cold winter day, just him
and I, I played my music, which I know he would laugh at me again if
he were there, yet it was a music in the all yard, sunny, cold, winter
day, so out of tune, so out of place, so warm, lively, and peace.

I feel sad, maybe it's just depression again. It comes in waves. On
some days it was bad, then hope and happiness kicked in in others, and
life became endurable again. 

Why is missing somebody so hard? Why is it that we will miss somebody,
some days, some moments, some blinks in life, and they will never
fade? I don't know whether it's just me or it's a human trait &larr; I
always feel I'm living in the past. I always tried best to be nice and
to appreciate the present. Yet, things inevitably slip into a past
term, left me with nothing but a tremendous ocean of sadness and
memory.

But in memory, she lives, safe and sound, immune to time, immune to
all the bad things in life, immune to hardship, forever young, forever
lovely, forever beautiful, forever close by.

