Title: 知乎, 名词
Date: 2021-01-07 08:22
Tags: thoughts
Slug: capitol riot
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="images/2f22da8.jpg"/>
</figure>


Watching the capitol riot was rather an exciting experience. But of
course, that's because I was hiding behind a screen, out of harm's
way, as if we are watching a war movie, sure, go for it guys, charge,
bring on the big guns and explosions and loud sound effect, whatever,
oh, where is my popcorn, honey!? But that's wrong, isn't it? or is it?
That's the dark side of a human, myself included, that lip service is
always wonderful and rewarding, and the bloodier it is, the more
arousing your senses become. What is this!? **Gladiator mode!?**

Now, looking at comments on [知乎][1], that is just totally
**disgusting**! But I'm asking myself, why so? why I feel them
disgusting!? Is it just because I don't like Trump? or just to take a
stand of the event while myself really knows nothing about politics
nor these people inside the Capitol Hill? and why the word, _people_?

# the people

This is interesting, because so many of 知乎 posts used the word, 人民，
the people. But I beg to disagree. First of all, what is _the people_?
To the least, I would say that these men and women don't represent
me. So if they are the people, or representing the people, well, I
never agreed, nor agree now. But I do consider myself part of _the
people_.

Well, so let's say we don't use the word _the people_, then what!?
What do you use to describe these, people!? Yeah there are other words
used in th news, mobs, rioters, and so on and on, but again, someone
like me will also object their use because of so and so.. so I guess
the reality is, we have to pick a word to describe these, but no
single word will be satisfactory to all ears. Therefore, the momen an
even is being described, the opinions, which themselves are noting but
a version of description, thus also totally dependant on the words,
will be split. This is just a given! So the logic works like this:

1. I use "A" to describe (my opinion)
2. You use "B" to describe (your opinion)
3. Because we can't agree on using only A or B, we have split opinions.

So with this logic, the way to _unify opinions_ will be to _eliminate_
A or B &rarr; what is this then, censorship!? Dark logic, isn't this!?
So, can we then say that disagreement is really a built-in limitation
of human language!? &larr; sounds so, doesn't it?

Further, this word _the people_ have been abused so much, imho,
recently in the politics that it really needs to be stopped. The word
had a glory tone, making it sound **noble** and **correct** as if by
default. This is especially promoted by propagandas such as the China
medias. But I have argued and heard arguments before, which I couldn't
agree more, that we are born as **citizen, not the people**, because,
we define the scope of _the people_? In China, it's the authority,
some invisible face says "you are now one of the people, oh, no,
sorry, now you are outside this camp now", that kinda of arbitrary BS,
or I call tags, which, when slapped on you, is just like labeling you
as criminal, or Jew, or witch, or whatever, so to outcast you from
life, trashing you down &larr; honestly, the word doesn't matter at
all, because it's only to serve a sentimental purpose, with a sole
gole to arouse a certain emotion inside some targeted audience, and
viola, my behavior is thus justified, while you are doomed &mdash;
familiar!? You should be, because every single crime against mankind
had been committed using this tactic, no exception. **And the great
danger of this tactic is that label is so damn cheap, that it in turn
makes victim's life, cheap.** So really, stop calling us _the people_,
not until we have abolished its _inherited correctness_ which is the
core of its abuse. It should be a neutral word that means nothing but
a group of somebody who share a common interest of
something. Period. Just like when we say, the janitors, the taxi
driver, the cooks, there isn't any emotional justification in these
labels, thus will not become a label for crime. It's only when the
lable is emotionally charged that it now morphs into a weapon of
offence, a club that can knock somebody down, then the question
becomes _who holds the club, and who is on the other side_.

# violence &rarr; fear

What is happening in these posts? I can accept a different opinion, a
wish for a downfall of your opponent. But a cheer, or a justification,
for violence? I have stated at the beginning about the gladiator mode,
which I start to feel is an inherent dark side of human being. So if
we do recognize it a devil, shouldn't we then remind ourselves to keep
it in its cage, as much as we can, but not cheering when it breaks out
once a while!?

I'm not a pacifist who is horrified by any violence. I think certain
situation does call for action, which will be violent. What the
purpose that will be, I don't know. Each action taker has his/her
justification, of course. Some you agree, some you don't. It's easy to
damn the ones you disagree with, but this is completely relative
&mdash; each side thinks his opinion is the correct one, isn't it!?

But as common sense goes, you don't go into a street fight that just
happened next to you by two strangers, do you? Why!? Because human, or
in that sense any living animals, shun from violence. I doubt anyone,
well, the ones you think you have the justification, will claim and
sincerely act on, that you like being part of a violence. We, as
animals, don't. Violent scenes in life is just disturbing, unsettling,
and fearful. Yes, the word **fear**, violence brings fear, and fear is
a bad thing, in an absolute term!

When you cheer for a violence, you are literally cheering for fear. I
was gonna say the sentiments fostered by these 抗日神剧， and of
course the propagandas, have become a poison of heart that made many
think violence in real life is as fun and entertaining as the
scripts. I don't advocate anyone to try it out so that you can now
know how terrible a war is. But I see there is a flaw in term of
**memory of a generation** when younger crops grow up with less and
less intimate experience with such thing, thus thinking it's _not that
bad_. WWII to me is still quite recent, not because I'm old, but
because I wasn't born early enough to be fooled that it's all glories
&mdash; the memory of horrror lived on by many many literatures and
movies and arts, and are only becoming stronger and clearer when,
benefiting from time, more evidences emerge, more mysteries solved,
while the winner's propaganda and sentiments wore off &mdash; when it
was first won, victory justified any means; now, looking back, there
are many doubts, many challenges, and many critics, and I believe
these are healthy and necessary reflects!

But then, there is China's _victor writes the history_ practice, which
creates a Truman's life for its _people_, and it's just now becoming
bizzare! Not only it has turned fear an acceptable thing in their
_common sense_, but it has rather destroyed an even more fundamental
value of human being &mdash; sympathy.

I may have a very strong opinion against yours. I may not like you, or
even hate you. But hey, watching you lying there to die will still
makes me sad, and brings an urge to help. It's not that I'm super
kind, it's just human. But here are these posts, which not only like
the _downfall of the America_, but outright like how it has disgraced
itself.

I think we are too naiive to believe we are different, and too easy to
forget that when the boat leaks, we are all drown. In term of human
and its dignity, there is really only one boat.


[1]: https://www.zhihu.com/question/438235275
