Title: Cart and Horse
Date: 2020-07-12 10:57
Slug: cart and horse
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col l4 m6 s12">
  <img src="images/social%20distancing.png"/>
</figure>


It's a turmoil time, in America. It's a huge confusing time, that the
Corvid-19 is being used as a case in point that China has done a
brilliant job controlling the virus, while US is failing the _test_
miserably, systematically. On top of all these, there is the racial
fight, that all lives matter, or some lives matter, or B life matters
(only?), and the looking back for redemption of historical sin, be it
slavery, Columbus being a terrible person (and he was, based on what I
heard on YouTube, and Noah confirms that), and so were the other many
famous figures whose statues are now being questioned, toppled, hailed
at its destruction, at its disfiguring, at its humiliation, at its
deglorification.

But then, it is a slippery slope, because, where would we stop? Whose
status can still stand if viewing in such a hindsight judging w/
modern day criteria, or moral threshold we believe today, but may not
be so back then? This is the same dilemma of the [In Defense of
History][1] how we can study history, or even view history, and ever
be _objective_, _neutral_, _factual_ &larr; it is theoretically
impossible.cThen, what's on the other side of all these _good words_!?
&rarr; bias, prejudice, discrimination, and so on.

The logic seems to be in a loop, that cart and horse, chicken and egg,
which goes first? Many of the articles criticizing America's failure
of dealing w/ virus and other social issues are rooted in a premise,
in my opinion, that US has all the capacity to make a happy life for
its citizens (and the entire human race), but it failed to do so,
because it's so illy prepared that resulted in shortage of masks,
ventilators, hospitals, jobs, and on and on and on, and therefore, as
a consequence, people die, suffer, not having the American dream.

However, who don't we question these, assumptions, first!? Who said
American should be granted with such a life? Why would hospital stock
enough ventilators while it doesn't know, and would never be able to
predict, how many it needs for the next, emergency? And even once we
know the wave is coming, how would we be so sure that we could have
just stock up and ramp up, and will be ready for the hit, if we had
chosen!? Honestly, even w/ good preparation and sincere effort as
hoped, a disaster strike will still be, disastrous. It's like wearing
thick clothes when removing a hornet nest from your porch &mdash; yes
it will make the sting less painful, but no it's not a solution, thus
should not be the goal on its own. Rather, you should start asking why
hornet decides to put a nest there, and anywhere else he could live
peacefully with you &mdash; after all, hornet didn't nest there just
to annoy you. Sorry, he puts there because he didn't know it's YOUR
HOME, and he sees it only a suitable place for his purpose, and likely
you probably have driven him there because he doesn't have any woods,
grasses, trees, shades, to build anymore since you wiped the
environment out to build your highways and houses!

Same here. Virus is not a phenomenon that God is punishing human. It
has been in the nature, somewhere, until it touches one out of
thousands of living things it touched already, human. We view them as
evils, and they are, to us. But it's only a relative thing. We human
are arrogant, just like we think American is arrogant, that we think
we deserve a certain type of treatment, that the world, or the
planent, or the universe, should bend to our will, cater to our
interest, and satisfy our desire. That, is the root of all these, ill
feelings. 

I don't mean we should give up expectation, because that is not
humanly possible. But I do think we should reestablish a discussion of
social contract, that means two parties enter an agreement, and each
end holds right, but more importantly, responsibility. The fight, if
is a mean to bring the other person to the negotiation table, is
necessary, but is not a mean to claim a victory, because negotiation
is not a mark of either victory or defeat &mdash; it should be the
starting point when two sides are now on the same footing, no more, no less.


[1]: https://www.amazon.com/Defense-History-Richard-J-Evans/dp/0393319598
