Title: Chauvinism
Date: 2021-04-19 10:05
Tags: thoughts
Slug: chauvinism
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col l8 m8 s12">
  <img src="images/boao-forum-2021-0418.jpg"/>
  <figcaption>The first impression of this picture is how many females
  reporters are there, and how young they all are. If
  media/communication/opinion are so influential, isn't this then an
  argument that females are actually controlling our ears!? Of course
  not! I'm rather questioning, why so many of them are girls? Do they
  write their columns based on the info they collected here? or just
  administrative task of taking pictures, compiling bits, and let male
  reporters back in the office to formulate an opinion? If so, how
  wrong this actually is already!</figcaption>
</figure>

I have heard this word when young, but never understood what it is,
nor ever cared to find out. But recently I have been thinking a lot
about feminism, or be more specific, what is a woman? This is probably
triggered by watching the [Couple Therapy][2], which prompted me wrote
the [why read books][3], not only I think relationship is hard, but I
start to realize how little I know about a woman.

I remember a Youtube video in which it started filming young girl and
boy first, asking them to use movement/gesture to illustrate what is a
run, a punch, that sort, then, moved on to an older age group, same
pair of a boy and a girl, same or similar asks, then next age group,
and so on... the video was striking, and the point it was trying to
make clear, that gender image, or so called gender differences that
are used to define, or to depict the gender's characteristics, such as
weak, gentle, calm, soft, and so on, are really an educational
phenomenon &rarr; in its natural form, boys, girls, males, females,
are the same, I mean, same in sense that they are physically and
mentally the same animal. The often quoted argument that females are
generally shorter, smaller, weaker physically, are no more than we
also see them in any living species, that some individuals or group of
individuals present a larger frame, taller, and so on... it's almost
laughable in this sense that one would look down someone else because
he has a thicker nostril while the other one doesn't! .... the natural
response you would have if someone approached you for this cause would
simply be, 你有病吧 ... hahaha..

But then, [Chauvinism][1], in particular, the male chauvinism, is
everywhere. I didn't realize such a thing even though I have heard
earful of so called feminism, women's right, sexual equality, and on
and on and on.. To me, they have been nothing but a bucket of
words/labels that some people are taking interested in, fighting for
it, thinking it's the most important thing on earth, but I have no
idea, and doesn't affect my life a bit, so why should I care? But now,
I can't help confessing, how wrong was I!

After divorce and moved out, I haven't really reflected much about
relationship &mdash; it's a failure in my case, so nothing to be
reflect about but admit the defeat and move on. But once a while, I
think maybe it's my engineering curiosity kicks in, that I wonder,
why, what did I miss, why the code crashed, and why it crashed in such
a way &larr; if it's a bug, whether it's a bug in me, in her, or in
the interaction of ours, or something else, I have an interest to
know. It's not about learning the lesson so not to repeat it, but I
started to realize that it's inevitable to have social interaction,
and being half the population more or less, female represent a group I
can't shun from, regardless how I wish. Further, the more I observe
this life, this world, and in particular, observing Noah's growing up,
I can't help realizing how biased we have been teaching the boys about
girls, about this whole gender identity, this image &larr; whenever I
was preaching Noah about being strong, independent, considerate,
responsible, I can't help wondering on the back of my mind that this
is the same bias I'm putting into him which had infested me so to
cause such a, misunderstanding, about woman, which of course led to
the failure of the marriage and all that. So, am I then teaching him
something that will cause his misery as well!? That will be totally,
bad.

So, what is woman!? First of all, I have admit, they are beautiful to
look at. Yes, there are many many of them, and many of them are simply
beautiful &mdash; they are lively, energetic, smart, graceful, strong,
healthy, having all the qualities I respect and like. Then, this
sexual desire. Yes it's of course a nature's call. But then, why the
breast, or the feet, or the legs, or the hair, or whatever catches
your fancy!? why? Think about breast for a moment. This seems so
natural that I'm attracted to one, but then, why so? It's not some
childhood psycho deficiency that since infants found peace in them,
thus this trait carries into adulthood. Maybe. But really, there is
more to this. Move this admiration to a man, has anyone bragged about
his 喉结 Adam's apple, "Look at that guy's adam's apple! How sexy that
is!"... that is just, bizarre, right!? But then, breast is nothing but
an effect of sexual development, a trait that females have, just like
guys have this. So, why man stared at her breast as if it's the
ultimate desire, where his own feature in the same category bears none
of this emotion!?

I think it's a cliche that sexual feature is always defined in scope
of a culture &mdash; as the urban legend that Tang dynasty likes plum
girls, and some tribes use tattoos here and there, and so on and so
forth. As I have said before, if you look at a group of monkeys, you
know what, one monkey is deadly attractive because of her beauty, yet,
to you/me, I feel, nothing! So, same here. It's really a man-made
message that we are propagating from one generation to the next, being
part of the heritage/culture, that such image of a gender is formed,
then is used as a mold to require/form women to follow. In history if
China had misfortune of 贞洁牌坊， then now I can see the same mold is
in every culture, different name, but same stuff.

So to Chauvinism, this male chauvinism. In recent years while working
in China, I have witnessed, heard, debated, and tried to stand up in
my capacity against male debasing a female without realizing this
could be a two-way conversation. Not only it was shocking to hear
someone as intelligent and well doing as a young manager in his 30s
**bragged** about his mom supporting his fight w/ his wife by saying
"I'll find a better wife for you.", but it was almost sad when we were
cleaning up racks of clothes, and the HR girl, whom I thought was as
independent and strong as any I know, deliberately didn't want to hire
woman because they will have maternity leave. I mean, I am not
criticizing them here. I'm thinking of them in this article because it
was an experience I wasn't prepared for, and when I heard their
sayings and reasoning, I was surprised, surprised that both sex
displayed the same trait, the same bias, and were propelling the same
static culture/image of woman.

Myself has plenty of this bias. I wouldn't excuse myself that "my
father told me so".. part of it, yes, but also, by myself, I have long
been feeling that women are beautiful, and their job in life should
be, just that. By having such a view ingrained, I constantly would
find it, what will be the word, annoying? intimidating?, when the one
I started to know well displayed as strong a mind, as strong an
opinion, as strong a stand of a decision, as I would have done myself!
So yes, I believe what I had experience is just that, the male
chauvinism. Why would I be surprised, or annoyed, or intimidated?  The
only explanation would be, that I myself had not thought of them in
par as myself, I had undervalued their capability, capacity, and was
still in position of looking down from a higher position,
mentally. How pathetic was I!

But how to change this? How to change, myself? I don't know. I feel I
know nothing about woman. Maybe it's too late of a time in life to
gain that knowledge. But this should be a warning to everyone, that
bias, this gender bias, is not only not dead, it is actually quite
popular and strong. It's everywhere. But it needs to be challenged. I
don't understand, nor support, any of this female equality thing
currently going on here. But I do admit that there is something not
reasonable, something in which male played a dominant voice and coined
a mold for the females without asking of their opinions. And this
one-sided initiative is the one I'm becoming aware of, and I think it
is wrong.


[1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chauvinism
[2]: https://www.amazon.com/Couples-Therapy-Season-1/dp/B07XB7XNLJ
[3]: {filename}/thoughts/why%20read%20books.md
