Title: Chengdu
Date: 2019-12-10 08:30
Tags: love
Slug: chengdu
Author: Feng Xia
Status: Draft

My dear 小人儿,

I have long been wanting to write you this letter. Woke up 6:30 this
morning. Darkness all around. The city is yet to become alive. But
this is a special day for you. I can't help feeling the anxiety inside
that, finally I'll be on the journey to the place where you lived,
where you grew up, where we said we would open our own little bnb
shop, someday. I want to see it, want to confirm w/ myself that this
is indeed a city that I will be able to live, for a long long long
time, as long as you are there, not just an empty promise driven by
mad love at the time that guys promise anything just to get the
girls. No, it's not like that, I'm not like that. I promise, and I
will keep my promise.

I miss you. If there is one thing in this world I truly believe and
feel inside, is that I miss you very very much. I can still hear your
laughs ringing by my ears, and your elegant body walking down the
street, rather floating in the air, with lightness, with air, with a
pure beauty.

By pure chance, I walked onto the 玉林西路 last night, and saw the bar
where the song 成都 became famous. I had no idea. There is a little
boutique shop across the street, where the woman carries some really
nice, interesting garments w/ exotic patterns and colors. A bag I
really liked, though it was too expansive. I don't know how to feel, i
couldn't really tell whether there was you also walking up and down
this street at some nights w/ friends, or this is another tourist site
that you locals never set steps on?

Went 宽窄巷子 and 春熙路 yesterday and the night before. Nice looking
place. Very well done layout and design, modern, artistic, w/ a good
taste. I found this city is filled w/ beautiful things &mdash; bumped
into 肖家河 yesterday, amazed by all the wall arts on the walls of
regular, sometimes old, residential buildings. What a mix between
playful arts, young flavors, and old static lives! I think it is a
wonderful way to inject a string of energy to otherwise laid back
style known for this city. Have you been there? If not, go check it
out.

