Title: Cherry
Date: 2023-04-02 3:51
Tags: thoughts
Slug: cherry
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="images/DSC_4729.JPG"/>
</figure>

Second day in Tokyo. Cherry blossom.

It was a genuine surprise that we walked right into this shrine. I
have heard so much of it growing up with the ideology, but seeing it
is, different. Beautiful spring day. Watching the locals coming in
groups, old and young, I could only guess that this is a spring
weekend outing for many, like walking to a park where you would find
the best cherries, nothing special, nothing heavy, nothing sad.

The cherry trees are beautiful. Though I got just as much pedals in
Cary as here, the trees here felt more, aged, fitting for the scene,
fitting for the culture, fitting for the emotion. I don't know why,
but I felt tremendous sadness. Spring breeze came from time to time,
scattering the pedals as a rain. God knows how many phones and cameras
were capturing the moment. People smiled, selfied, what a good life,
but indeed cherry is like life, beautiful in some time, then, blown
away. For the people who died in the war, or any war, by being
believing in something so the mind could reconcile, it was noble, and
it was tragedy. Put the ideology aside bah. A person needs something
spiritual, something that is higher than this material world,
something that is only within, that is, perhaps as fragile as these
cherry flowers, but as pretty and memorable as them, too. May the wind
caress your body, soul, be rest in peace, be remembered.

Noah drew a lucky charm following three girls example, and got a 1st
rate. For the first time in this trip, I felt he was connected with
this land. After that he had been drawn to shrines. Watching him is
like time travel, the young me, with futures ahead, and life ahead. I
wish he would be feeling this spiritual side of things, sensitive,
noble, beauty within, and without.
