Title: Christmas eve homeless woman
Date: 2024-12-24 14:02
Tags: thoughts
Slug: christmas eve homeless woman
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="images/DSC_6587.JPG"/>
</figure>


Walking back from the local camera store, beautiful weather. Under the
sun it's feeling quite warm actually, like an early Spring. Here sit a
homeless woman. I couldn't tell from afar w/o my glasses. She was
sitting in the shadow on a bench outside a local auto shop. I didn't
notice till she moved. Then, she and I acrossed the intersection
together. I recognize her &mdash; I actually I think I saw her quite a
few times on Franklin street, w/ other homeless people. I think
yesterday morning outside the Open Eye I ran into her also, in the
bitter morning cold, that she made a gesture as if asking for a smoke,
and I said sorry I don't smoke and don't have one. Today the same
gesture happened, and I answered the same way. Then while walking
along I could feel she was behind me. So I turned around, and repeated
that sorry I don't have anything to offer. Then, she gestured me to
take a picture of her! A bit surprised, but I didn't feel so, so I
declined it. While in it I started to notice that she seemed could not
make a sound(!). Then, she grabbed the frog on my bag, and made like a
deep gollum sound, which I couldn't tell whether she was trying to
talk or just a sound. Seeing she is interested in the frog, and also I
was a bit scared, I told her this is my son's, and she made a smile. I
went on, saying have a nice day, and walked on. She trailed a bit
further, then, in front of I was going to pass a community housing
establishment, outside which sat three or four men, also homeless
looking. She didn't follow any further, as if they have an agreement
of territory/turf.

This whole, incident, made me sad.

I don't know her. Like said I have seen her before, but it never made
me to think twice. I'm wondering, how much does it really take for a
person, a human being like her, to fall to the bottom of a society? I
had a bit fear of her, admittedly, but then, I wouldn't fear as such
at all if she were a street cat or dog, I wonder. Why? Why I would not
like being around a human, while I would have felt a much stronger
sympathy towards a cat or dog? Isn't it because underline I had
assumed that she had had a chance not to be like this? But how could I
know if she was ever given such a chance? What says she was to setup
to be like this since young? Why would I think dog, or cat, would then
deserve a sympathy? Isn't because I assumed that it's caused by a
irresponsible owner? that all dogs and cats are essentially, alike?
Why? If by counting the shere variety of human being and their
personalities, I think it's only logical that there are many different
kinds among dogs and cats, that some are, like good human being, kind,
sweet, and so on, while there are others that are, at where they are
because their own doing. We assumed all animals are alike because we
think they operate by so called animal instinct, which, in my mind and
perhaps in many others' as well, is pretty much the same across any
animal species as long as they are not human &larr; now to think of
this, this must be a huge exaggeration, or generalization, which
unlikely to be true! Dogs and cats much have variations of
cat/dog-personalities just like human! Some do well, some don't.

Then, does it really take much for a person to fall? or a cat/dog?
There are quite a few seemingly homeless people roaming around town. I
feel bad for them, especially when I saw them sitting outside in a
bitter cold. Why don't they find a shelter? Is there a shelter? How do
they survive, if today, tonight, then how about tomorrow? next week?
How long could one last like this? I don't know, and I wonder whether
myself is really that far from falling under just like that? I suppose
they had family, parents, a house, a home, all those things. Yet,
somehow, something happened to them that they are now living in a
layer of this town that is so different from mine. I don't know why,
but I really don't think it takes much to be like that. We say life is
fragile, then I wonder life in the sense of a day-2-day living is also
fragile, that one of something could take you down, like a rock all of
sudden caught on your feet when you are peddling water in a torrent
&mdash; maybe it's just like that. I don't know whether it's of their
own fault that they now live like this. But I kinda doubt it. It's
easy to say that they choose this way when they don't go to shelter
and that. I think that's only a saying after they have fallen &mdash;
more of a way to reconcile oneself w/ a harsh reality. Who doesn't
want to live in comfort, w/ abundance, hot coffee, good meal, and all
that?

I can't forget that the woman grabbed the frog, almost like a small
kid who couldn't resist the temptation when seeing sth she likes. I
still don't know what she was trying to say. I feel bad for her, and
for me didn't have a courage to make more conversation, or to find out
what she wanted. I can't give her this frog, but next time I could
offer to buy her a coffee, if that suits her need.

So this is what happened on this xmas eve day, 2024. Maybe I need to
learn to be more sympathetic towards another human?
