Title: City life
Date: 2019-03-20 21:29
Tags: thoughts
Slug: city life
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="images/prospective.jpg"/>
</figure>

I find it curious. Listening to a sentimental talk show on the Netease
music app, the kind that a young woman's pretty face as the icon, and
a soothing voice that suggest the picture you see is her, and slow,
relaxing, late night style light music in the background, and always
topics of thoughts, quite like what I have from time to time, about
life, about love, about career, about purpose, about why the suffering
and why the choice.

On the one hand, I feel she is too young to be really understand the
depth of these topics. I can't help having the sense that this is 为说
新词强说愁, and many of the arguments are actually, false, in my
opinion, because there is an underline assumption that she is not even
touching (or making it obvious that she is aware of such
assumption). For example, a popular sentiment is the anxiety of young
people who is living a city life &mdash; so called stress from work,
from struggling, especially if struggling alone, from unfair treatment
by the boss, by the peers, by the city culture overall. Then, the
counter side is always "but she gives up a nice easy life in her home
town and chose to come to Shanghai... because she is not ready to live
a repetitive life as her parents (and other friends).." and so on. So
here is one huge assumption that home town life will be easy and
quiet, that she can "go home at 5 and be with parents and spend the
night watching TV". Well, if we now examine this **assumption**, it's
obvious this is not true, in many many ways.

First of all, small town life is not a rosy picture, at all. Small
social circle also means closer ties, less privacy, and higher peer
pressure. You will have more extra hands to help, but also extra
voices to listen to, to show respect to, to follow a stricter social
hierachy, to meet a less flexible expectation, to deal w/ tighter
control of your each step as if the rail has been laid, for you... by
the way, nobody said that less uncertainty equals less
stress. Honestly, I simply do not buy such theory at all &mdash; this
is the same as those talk show of history constantly remind us that
life in the Song dynasty was a wonderful. Give me a break! I bet even
a nobody is living a better life than the kings back then, better
health at least, better dental, better toilet... so the same goes w/
these small town fantasy. If home town life were all gain but no loss,
I would seriously consider it a world wonder, cause till today,
nothing like this has been found yet.

Second, feeling loneliness and being alone, is terrible, but is
universal, and is necessary. This is not a city disease. On the
contrary, being surrounded by friends and family is suffocating and
unhealthy. Let me ask this, how are you forming your own opinion on
things if you don't have the chance to read and hear from less
opinionated source (ok, I know all news are opinions, in a way, but
better than a complete opinion from, anyone, parent, relatives,
friends, foes, anyone), and have time to think? City is cruel, it is
distant, it does not care you and me, it is cold. But it teaches you
to look inward, to talk to yourself, to cope with yourself, and to
know yourself. It's hard, unpleasant, but necessary, because at the
end of day, the only person you know well is yourself, the one who
will not leave you, is yourself, and the one who will put dinner on
your table, is yourself. I don't enjoy the loneliness a bit. But it's
inevitable, sooner or later, in life, that I have to face, to
survive. Those who are hoping to dodge this bullet, will be
disappointed.

Now, on the other side of my thoughts on this, is that there is a
common theme that occurs from generation to generation, from year to
year, from day to day, from person to person &mdash; the wish of going
back in time, missing the past, whether it was a youth, a young love,
a wonderful time in life... why? From the picture and sound of this
woman, she is in her 20s I would guess. So really there isn't much to
go back to, when I'm speaking from my age. Yet, I remember the
feeling, I echo the thoughts, I agree with her sentiments, and I wish
to do the same. Sometimes I wonder when I hit 70s, which is another 20
some years later, looking back, wouldn't I wish I could come back to,
today!? But now being here, being right now, I don't want to be, here,
now, but to go back to a moment in time. How self-conflicting!

What is this that we want to go back to? Don't we actually only
implying a particular moment, period, but nothing before, nothing
after? And even for that moment and that period, aren't we also
thinking only a person being there, but no other _noises_, so the
experience will be pure, even abstract? I think so. It is cherry
picking only the things you like, but can get away with things you
don't.

Logically speaking, this is the same that I despise those history
talks &mdash; Song was fine, but not everyday. If to relive the glory
of a moment, great. But for over 200 years of days, and it would be
safe to bet they also had 24 hours each day, and feeling hungry as
regular as we do today, life, most of them, were filled with
things from Pandora's box.

So city likely amplifies these things, and accelerates the pace that
you must face reality. The real question is always &mdash; do you want
to know, and be unhappy? or be ignorant, and be happy?
