Title: Class
Date: 2018-01-27 17:30
Tags: thoughts
Slug: class
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="images/mary%20poppins.jpg"/>
</figure>


I have to say, I haven't read an entertaining book as [Class][1] for a
long time. This book is just stimulating, fun, and sharp. It actually
hurts. It describes sooo accurately of what I feel about many
aspects/signals in life that I come off with a much clearer idea of
what all these things are about and why they exist and behave in such
a way.

[1]: https://www.amazon.com/Paul-Fussell-American-1983-10-16-Hardcover/dp/B0197PAO4U/ref=la_B000AQ6OIQ_1_17?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1517092280&sr=1-17&refinements=p_82%3AB000AQ6OIQ

Super interesting. One thing for sure, Noah will be a middle-class
man, because I simply do not possess the attributes of the uppers,
thus having no ability to teach him that. Yet I truly wish he would
become one someday, not implying the fortune or the fame, but their
carefree of others' opinion, their accurate use of words in its
essence and intent, their blunt expression without ambiguity, and
their dismiss of artifacts created without practical purpose.

This is brilliant! Really. I have been agonized by proliferating use
of adjectives both in my own language and others for a while (even
this exact sentence is full of adjectives I feel redundant, harmful!).
I could not get to the bottom of it. I realized that adding more
adjectives make the sentence long and _richer_ (it seems), thus giving
(or I should say, _I, the speaker, hope_) a sense sophistication and
profoundness &mdash; but really many many times I felt it is a
cover-up job because I (the speaker) simply lack the accurate
understanding of the topic, thus having to pile up _big words_ and
adjectives so to describe it with an attempt to be _accurate_.

Well, at least in my case the intention is to make it more accurate
than what my mind is capable to describe. There are another army of
cases (that just annoyed me to hell, whenever I hear them in speech,
see them in writing, or smell them in the air!) whose sole purpose is
pretentious (learned this word from this book, what a lovely
word!). Ah, how about another word, [euphemism][2] &mdash; this is
exactly what I talked about China's booming degradation of its
language &mdash; people are proud of speaking in riddles as if it
carries more information than it contains. But the only effect is 
misunderstanding, anxiety, and completly irresponsibility of the
speaker because the words are **intentionally infallible,
ambiguous, and keeping audience in perpetual suspense!** 

[2]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Euphemism

When upper says "I want my daughter's wedding to be right", I think
they have a clear picture in mind of what is right (and certainly what
is wrong). However, when the word "right" is being used pretentiously,
neither its speaker nor its audience dares to stand up for a
definition &mdash; the speakers feels superior to audience because
s/he has just used an infallible word whose **correctness is implied,
inherent, built-in**; the audiences wonder whether they didn't get it
just because they are stupid.

How sad. How outrageous! This is not merely ridiculous, this is
absolutely bad. I am glad to come across this book, not because I
agree with his view of society (or even class divisions), but a sharp
tongue to remove those seemingly _elegant, civilized, sophisticated_
items in life. This is a book all marketing people should read, study,
discuss, and apply &mdash; I always believe good sales is about a good
understanding of the group (segment, but now we should just say
_class_), about their human desire (of a projected image of
themselves, eg. the collectible item example in this book, or the
British product name, and of course the easy way to show $$ by
dangling a **luxury** handbag with bling-bling name plate, and
fondness of **personalizing** anything). If I have citicized
[marketing][3] before, I will emphasize my view once again &mdash;
stop thinking you are smarter than your buyers by _selling your ideas
to them_! On the contrary, your success relies on you **learning their
ideas** &mdash; you see, the whole team of China _marketing gurus_ 
is getting this reversed!

[3]: {filename}/thoughts/marketing.md

So, call it whatever you want, and feel free to agree or disagree this
book however you feel. The point I make here isn't about the _class_
descriptions, isn't about signals to identify and categorize anyone,
anything into a 9-grade system. It's the spirit of being practical,
being truthful to oneself and to others, being real &mdash; if you
don't know something, just say it, "I don't know anything about it."

This goes to all used **broadly, freely,
carelessly** in China these days &mdash; 专家，老师，先生，大数据，人工智能...
