Title: Cliche
Date: 2021-12-04 09:42
Tags: thoughts
Slug: cliche
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s6">
  <img src="images/animal-adopt.jpg"/>
</figure>

Listening to this [video][1], an opinion on a not-so-recent event
between China and Japan, again, and this idea came to me &mdash;
cliche. I like many of the talks by this host, but this particular one
sounds, dull, thus, cliche.

As a commentator on news, the value, or the content that we listen to,
is his opinion, which makes me wonder, just how many opinions one can
have? More precisely, how many different ways of thinking, views, that
one person can have on these events? Especially if you are commenting
on a daily basis, I feel it is a stretch on some days, not because he
is not good, but that a person's mind isn't always sharp everyday
&mdash; on a good day, the thought cuts through the news like a knife
over butter; then on other days it felt aimless, and worse, becomes a
cliche.

Any more than just the variation of days, I start to feel more and
more that a person, myself in particular, lives towards a narrow end
of a tube if one is not consciously aware of such, or even battle
against such. What I mean by this narrowing tube is that the scope of
thoughts become more and more static, that you have a particular way
of viewing this world, thus your opinion, and that opinion becomes
more and more dull, more and more repetitive &mdash; having a hammer,
you look everything like a nail &larr; another cliche by its own!

This is actually alarming. At the beginning I explained it that the
forum is restricted &mdash; for voicing dissent there are only that
many people who are in that, or interested in it. But now I am having
a second thought, that it's not only the number of lecturers is
limiting the variety of opinions, but the opinions themselves are
following a limited set of reasoning &mdash; in other words, even
providing more chef, but they are making the same menu, same dish,
same recipe, same taste.... you can open yet another McDonald's, but
it will be no different from the one right around my corner.

Why?

When speaking of an even between China and Japan, it's always the
quote of Japan never officially apologized for its sin and crime in
the World War II to China, thus itself becomes an original sin, like a
inferior birth, a skin color, that one would be forever doomed
regardlessly, unconditionally, and involuntarily... Further, one can
continue the exercise that China has done many wrongs, yet he didn't
apologize to its victims, either, thus the two are just equally evil,
or unfair &lrarr; this, then, creates a downward spiral that the two
race towards the bottom, nothing else, we compete to win a contest
whose hand is dirtier, but what a pointless race that will be!... If
civilization, regardless its precise definition, is generally accepted
as a upward trend that human lifts itself out of barbarity, then such,
or any, downward spin is the wrong direction to take. Period.

Then, these criticisms will also quote that Japan lost the war, and
_we_ won, and the identify of the _we_ is another cliche to dispute
&larr; what are, "we"?... And keep going, cliche brings the
expectation of winner being generous and loser being gracious, or
grateful for winner's generosity, and so on and on.... it is a cliche,
isn't it?

But if you really set to look at any of these reasoning, none is valid
automatically, isn't it? &larr; too many times they are being thrown
into discussion or party talk as if they were the First Cause, the
very first domino of reasoning that requires **no proof**, but they
are not, and even the First Cause itself is not.... therefore, there
are many loopholes, eg. who says winner should be generous?  &mdash;
the best explanation I can think of is that it's a moral code we hold
with pride, or a self-image one would like to project so to be
perceived as such a person. But all these are as subjective as a
religion &mdash; just because you hold a belief the earth is flat, or
round, leads to no reasoning that another person, your peer or foe,
should also share that view, and vice versa.

Even putting these loopholes aside, by listening to one person's talk
for a while, you start to sense the shape of his hammer. I'm not
criticizing at all. Rather, I think it's a built-in limitation of
everybody, philosophers included. The wise have a wider scope, like a
department store, while myself is like a corner 711, then there are
others like a hawker on the street selling a single dish.... this
picture is actually quite accurately echoing the reality of life
itself, that different people having different capacity, luck, career,
success failure, status... the same diversity applies to mind as well,
and just as widely dispersed across a spectrum as fortune and fame.

So, if we say some 80% of the total wealth is being held within the
hands of a some 1% population, I suspect the same ratio applies to the
scope of the mind and opinions. But this doesn't mean an elite
society, because there is a fundamental difference between monetary
wealth and the scope of a mind &mdash; money is singular, meaning
money carries a singular meaning whether it's RMB, $, but the scope of
a mind is not. More precisely speaking, for money, the more of the
same thing, the merrier, being repetitive is actually, the sublime
success, whereas for scope of a mine, the more of different things,
the better, being repetitive is the sublime failure. Therefore, you
see, there are two opposite force pulling everyone of us, and the
society, the world in general, that one force of repetition, that
brings comfort of life, and one against it, brings life of the
mind. So one could say that there is a risk one exchanges the life of
mind for comfort, and the temptation is real and strong.


Therefore, not only we have to allow more different voices to be
heard, but we have to actively seek out for more variety of opinions
so to disturb the scope of mind you already have. If only so could
one, if not resisting the erosion of comfort onto the mind, at least
making it a moving target, so that the mind continues on a run, it may
be on an exile, but it's still better than being stale.


[1]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CFq-cWuEAIU
