Title: A color
Date: 2017-06-01 13:00
Tags: thoughts
Slug: color
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col l6 m6 s12">
  <img src="{{SITEURL}}/images/funny/color.png"/>
</figure>


This is interesting. I am at the nursing home eating, and suddenly
realized the color of the book cover that I'm reading is nearly
identical to the color of the food containers. You know what? I have never
noticed this color before, nor would ever thought I will give it a
second thought. But then looking up, there it is, again, lying around
me, without me ever seeing it.

What is this color? <span style="color:#F6CEF5">#F6CEF5</span> is the
closest my eyes can tell. But men are known to be insensitive to
colors. So I'm not sure how accurate this number reflects what I saw.
I have thought this color really __cheezy__, but it speaks to me in a
way like never before, and I couldn't help wondering that your life is
marked by various ppl with their leftovers, some left a smile, some
left a sadness, some a regret, some a long lost friendship, some a
music, and another a color.

I know there is color theory that some are matching with others which
please the eyes while other combinations don't. Then there is the cold
color vs. hot color, blue for depression and red for passion. What is
this color? What does it stand for? I can't even think of a physical
thing that is in this color, yet it is here, everywhere. It reminds me
icecream, but it isn't cold or cool or sugary. It feels, mixed,
confused, puzzled. I thought it was pink, but is it also purple?


If colors arouse certain emotion, what we feel everyday while walking
on the street? Is the brain even processing or capable of processing
all these colors? I always find the SH streets too noisy for my
tastes, not just the crowd, the noise, the constant fluctuation of
ppl, all kinds of ordinary and strange activities, and then, here they
are, overwhelming display of colors &mdash; from clothes, from
billboards, from everybody walking towards you and everyone passing
you by.  The old depressing time was marked by three dominant colors
&mdash; white, black and gray. No one wanted that back. But now have
you thought we have __too many__ colors? is there such a thing as too
many colors? what does it feel like? why does it mean to us?

This purple-ish pink `#f6cef5`, so it walked into my life, stayed.
