Title: CP & miro
Date: 2020-11-12 15:13
Tags: thoughts
Slug: cp miro
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col l6 m6 s12">
  <img src="images/DSC_1230533.JPG"/>
</figure>

What a shocker!!! 7:30 in the morning, all hands meeting, it was
announced that CP is canned, officially, and Miro is leaving the
company. Wow.

I was left a bit speechless, I have to say. It's probably so for all
the others on the phone. I found it rather comical when the big boss
kept asking whether you have any question, and now is the time to
ask &mdash; this is a rather cunning strategy that asking people in a
pose of fairness while putting everyone in a shock mode first. What an
insincere moment!

So the product that I have been looking down for the last two years
are finally seeing its death. But this is still sad for me. It reminds
me what Todd said before &mdash; if the team has a problem and you
have been there long enough, you are part of the problem &rarr; at the
time I heard it, I was young and optimistic, and I felt it was rather
cynical to view oneself in that light, as if you are either a solution
or a problem, black and white. But this line is the first jump to my
mind when I heard the news, and am I indeed becoming a problem now
that belongs to a story of an unsuccessful project? I have been so
used to success that probably a defeat like this is a long past due,
and the cliche of `x%` of software projects all fail was just a,
cliche, as a convenience to quote, but doesn't relate, nor hurt. What
a shame. I feel hurt actually not of any personal pride, but rather,
the number of $$ spent in acquisition of such crappy technology to
begin with, of the mediocre, and some just downright incompetent,
people hired, and the waste of all these money and time while a much
smaller team with some much better minds could have made some much
better technology and product, and really made a difference not only
for the company, but for ourselves, and for the technology community
at large! What a waste, and that is really making me sad. 

It's sad also because I realize all these wastes are not the
exception, but the norm. Talkers achieve spotlight importance by being
loud and confident, and doers are too busy to _fix things they built
at the first place_ to spend time understand those high ideals which,
in most cases, don't even make sense. But hail, in order to keep the
comrade spirit, to be polite, respectful, tolerant, and so on, we shut
our mouth and let the talker take the center stage, and eventually,
like this moment, talk the whole ship into the abyss while everyone
onboard is going to drown. I have always pictured what it will be like
in a war, when I were assigned to a team while talkers are either in
position of a commander, or just peer out in a mission with me, what
would I do? &mdash; if I don't care, their ignorance will get me
killed; but if I do conflict, well, he might pull out the gun and
shoot me from behind... so either way, I get the short end of the
stick. How can this not be sad!?

Had a 1:1 w/ Miro yesterday afternoon. Disappointing I have to say. He
gave me the official script while I was hoping to make a conversation
just like two friends saying goodbye to each other after 4 years in
the same trench. I don't know what got into his mind these days. I
used to view him as a good friend who is not only capable technically,
but mentally tough and sincere. Not anymore. I feel there is a wall
between us since CP. I thought it was just that he was so busy now
with his big title and we had little time to chat, so we naturally
grew apart. But yesterday made me wonder it has always been that way
perhaps, just that I had always thought differently. Oh well, doesn't
matter anymore. I'm happy for him to move on to larger role and bigger
stage. But I hold that the so called three pillars he claims to be
leaving behind to hold the torch are, well, ranging from ok to not ok
at all. If he is sincerely think his choice has been so good, well, I
beg to differ, and I will say his view of human as a manager is
mediocre at most, unlike his technical skill and vision, which I rank
it as one of the best. So I guess, all these sayings can be concluded
in one, that he is not perfect, either, as I had regarded him to be,
more or less. Well, that is sad I would say.

A rather stormy raining day today. There is some weather condition
passing by I heard. Feels like a metaphor of the feeling &mdash;
gloomy, somewhat lost, feeling uncertain of what the future beholds,
anxious? maybe. I think, most of all, is that, there is one person on
my mind I want to talk to, to hear the voice, to lean against, sob, or
just seek a comfort, but can't. I heard [たかくら けん][1] loved
someone and then never married for the rest of his life. I start to
wonder, that is the fate I will, and want, to have.

[1]: https://ja.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E9%AB%98%E5%80%89%E5%81%A5
