Title: Cup of Joe
Date: 2019-05-24 14:22
Tags: thoughts
Slug: cup of joe
Author: Feng Xia

<div class="col l6 m6 s12" style="margin-right: 2em;">
<video width="100%" height="100%" controls="controls">
  <source src="images/firework.mp4 "
          type="video/mp4" />
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
  /* instead of the last line you could also add the flash player*/
</video>
</div>

I like this place, like the smell of roasted coffee beans, like the
fragrance that left in your mouth after a sip, that you will never
find in Starbucks regardless how expansive a flavor you order, like
the hippie-ish feeling of the room and the people, like the bright,
yellow, tin ceiling tiles, like the girls working behind the counter
who always carry an atmosphere of both warmth and an aloofness, a
sense of, cool, a sense of "this is my life style, I do what I do, and
leave me alone", like the girl dyed her hair in this, I don't even
know what color that is, greenish, thing, that can only be categorized
as a poor dye job, yet, it fits this room perfectly well.

A slow, nothing-to-do Friday afternoon, right before the Memorial Day
weekend. It feels actually rather strange that the holiday is for such
a serious matter &mdash; for life and death, for freedom and your
country, for dream of the people, for protecting your family and many
millions more... and then, here I am, sitting in this, I don't want to
call it a coffee shop, because the stereotype of coffee shop these
days have been mapped to this, static, industrial, no ceiling, steel
beams, black paint, kind of image, that, was exciting when you saw it
for the first time, but quickly become boring and fake, because the
people who sit in it, don't fit the scene!

Not here. Everyone walking into the door fits this place, almost
perfectly &mdash; mid-age guy who just walked in with jeans, sneakers,
a bit of hair, backpack, looking to spend some time, and no idea what
he does, and the students hovering around with their laptops and
pretend-being-busy study groups, and a few here and there who can only
be called a step above homeless, yet, they only projected leisure,
that sense of luxury of not being bothered by time, by any agenda,
just sits there... how wonderful! That's life, a life of its own, full
of, diversity, laziness, a flow, like the smell in this air, like the
faint background music which I have no idea what it is playing or
sounding even, mixed with the humming noise of the roaster that
happily rotating its way... isn't this a picture you can see now? I
hope so, because it is an image I wish you could see, someday, and if
only you could also sit here, with or without me, because, my dear,
you fit this place, perfectly, as cool as you have always been, as
cool as you are, as cool as you will always be. You will like it,
here.

# Huawei, and technology

Now, talk about this recent news of Huawei. Guannan responded with
questions and some of his thoughts. I really enjoy communicating with
him so to learn what he thinks, and to just witness that he shows
interests in this, because, out of all these years, I know this is the
most important trait one can find in a person &mdash; a strong sense
of curiosity, an active mind, and an independent mind. The contents of
opinion don't really matter much at all &larr; there are always
differences, one view vs. another, and that's the beauty of it. Even
though my line of work is aiming to **unify** things into some
**standard** ways of doing. Yet, probably because of that, I'm even
more sensitive and often eager to hear and to see different views, to
hear different thoughts, and to engage a debate/discussion who so, and
why not. To me, it's a checkpoint they provide to validate my thoughts
and logics, and to help a mental rehearsal so I can see how well my
conclusion stands to the test of challenge, and how really clear I can
explain them, and maybe even to convince them, if my view really
carries merits &mdash; it's always good that mine gets shot down by a
deeper analysis and a deeper thinking, because that, like someone's
awesome POC, shows me another possibility I have yet to come up with,
and I think as long as someone has figured it out, I shall be able to,
and take it even further, with my mind.

The entire Huawei story in recent news are, in my view, nothing but a
fiasco. The Chinese media again sound the drum of national interest
and bully of the western powers, and this is nothing short of being a
war, if only without exchanging bullets, but plenty
greeting-to-your-mom flying across. I don't know what Huawei has as so
called backups. A story says its OS is based on an opensource version
of the Android, and these phone makers are not stranger to bundling
Playstore together with their own off-shoot OS because they don't come
w/ Google support natively. So this explains quite well how Huawei can
survive this shock and boost national confidence once more, especially
if it spins the story to be that "I have seen this coming years ago,
and I am so prepared that I can fight, and win, anytime." &larr; how
well this fits the current national sentiments!

But you see, this is the exact danger that I will argue to watch out
for. I wish Huawei will fail the battle just like ZTE did, so it
doesn't propel this smoking curtain of China's confidence in
technology (well, technology is a big word, so let me limit myself to
things I know &mdas; cloud using Openstack or container, quick
prototyping using any programming language, networking design to
separate management traffic from data traffic.. sounds pretty boring,
right? But that's exactly my point, engineering, and technology,
should be boring, because they are sooo detailed, and hard, that it's
not fun to put them together at all, because 99.99999% of the time,
they don't work as you want them to be!).

China has seen waves of hypes that created unicorns, mass fans, elites
who BS without even knowing a thing of technology, and a blind belief
that "yes we can, because we dream". If you have ever tried to write a
line of code, or to learn a topic (think of your school days), or a
sports as hobby, you know that unless you have experienced pain,
frustration, upset, disappointment of yourself (and many others),
countless time wanting to give it up, nights and days of losing
motivation and wondering whether you made the wrong choice, staring at
a wall feeling completly clueless what this god-damn thing doesn't
work (but it worked yesterday!!), then, honestly, you know nothing
about engineering, nothing about technology, nothing about how all
these seemingly so common things &mdash; chips, OS, any programming
language, or library, or any stack that runs, at all, is put together.

So really,  wishing to win a battle is easy, wishing to defeat Google
is easy, doing so is, hard, really really hard. If Huawei's agenda is
still based on an open source Android, I bet it will not only fail,
but doesn't solve the problem at all. Not only it won't work, to tink
of it, isn't it even more humiliating that you are now using an
**unsupported** version of thing, like a left over, or a cutting edge
lab, that you are either becoming a guinea pig to be tried out with
the latest experiment, or always a few commits/versions behind!? How
is this going to be a good thing!?

Further, I admire that Huawei has been preparing for this moment for a
while, which, is a practical thinking. Miro always wants to replicate
a open source so we _control our own destiny_, and I totally
agree. Same for any knowledge, I always want to learn and understand
even if the domain is not part of my job at all, because only after I
have an overall understanding of these things could I now make changes
to my design and code with well-thought-about confidence what it will
impact &mdash; this, is the job of engineering, and should be, for all
of us.

I don't doubt Huawei will _fulfill_ its statement of continuing to
support its customers, because it said nothing about the level of
support and the quality of their service &larr; the entire 1.4 billion
customers have been living without Google, any of the western news
channel or app, and are perfectly, happy. Thus, it's not surprising
they will continue to be that way, without Google, without app store,
without Android even. Nothing wrong about that.

What is wrong, is that they are being shut not only from
possibilities, but from knowing these possibilities! What is the
important to make a customer happy!? Options! So their customer will
not be happy, by this definition, because they will lose, options, not
gaining more.

Further, being kept from these technologies don't bring energy to
create new, more awesome ones! That is a wishful thinking, but has
never played out in history &larr; aren't there plenty example in this
country's history, even very recent ones, that shutting doors will
only make us weaker, not stronger! It's like raising kids &mdmash; you
can either keep him in a bubble in a bacteria free environment, or let
him get sick young and even put the same virus called immunization
into his vein, so that he can grow up healthy.

Same principle applies to technology. The only code that is good, is
the one that has been looked at by many many pairs of eyes, has been
deployed to many many use cases, and likely have a long bug list
&mdash; it's a good sign! The unicorns in China that dominates that
market, but fooling the entire 1.4 billion users that they are
**perfect**, is neither perfect, nor good, and stands no chance when
there is competition, and I mean competition of technology, not
$$. Yes I know, they have a lot of money. But looking at any of the
failed giants, they all had deep pocket, a lot of money, a large team
of talents, but they fail in a matter of months, because they failed
in technology race.

Huawei is fine, and can be fine. It will only start to fail, if itself
is believing the lie it is feeding the public. And for the upcoming
uproar of chips and operating systems, see my [other one][1].

[1]: {filename}/thoughts/operating%20system.md
