Title: Dad trip
Date: 2023-05-08 16:19
Tags: thoughts
Slug: dad trip
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="images/1968%20earth.jpg"/>
  <figcaption>First photo of the Earth taken by NASA in 1968</figcaption>
</figure>

Finally, came back from this tiring trip. Having Dad in rest is a
great relief. I don't feel the same level of hurt anymore inside
myself. Though tears would still well when I think of him sometimes,
but not as painful as before. I am glad that the scarf that Noah and I
bought together are now blanketing him. Hope it will keep him warm,
safe, and in peace.

The trip was a tiring one. Friend said I was trying to pack too much
into too late time. But they couldn't imagine how stressful and home
sick I was towards the end of my stay in China. If I had many pleasure
trips and good times on this land, this one made me sick. Meeting and
catching up with friends were few highlights which made the trip warm,
friendly, and worthwhile. But traveling was indeed a tiring business
that you have to plan for which city you will go to, where to stay,
how to get there, how to get to the city, the hotel, how to get
around, and how to get back.... every a couple days you have to think
of and plan for these. The stress of not knowing where you will a few
days ahead troubles me. It's not the anxiety of planning but the
general feeling of drifting that was exhausting. Then, adding on top
of these, having to put off putting Dad to rest due to the stupid
reunion my mom was going to was just too much for my patience and
love. I wanted to be friendly and accommodating to her and her
plans. But being so self-centered and caring so little of Dad and my
feelings made me sick. Besides, Zhu's strong reaction of my plan of
putting Dad to rest early made me angry. I respect her point of view,
but I felt the argument was won only because I didn't want to
completely alienate her for my mom's sake. It felt like a having a
hostage in someone's hand, a feeling which I hate. It's probably a
feeling of betrayal, also, that everyone seems to have an agenda
running this as a show in which my Dad is nothing but a decor on
stage. Everyone wants to at the center stage, but the real main actor,
he, is brushed aside and couldn't be cared less as long as he, or
should I say his ashes, is there when called for. This whole alluded
idea of such a show sickens me. They criticized my plan of being rush
and unconventional and so on and on... but they had no idea how
agonizing it is that I had to go through the hellish weeks last May to
sign off his death, then waited all these days to see him and be able
to do something for him, even though this something is to bring his
death to an conclusion. I knew what it would be like when so called
ceremony takes place according to their schedule and idea. But it
would be, and was, such a superficial one, that it shares nothing of
the burden I felt on my heart. If sadness could be felt, it would have
been silent. The silence, is what I think he should have for his
coming home. Am I being selfish, inconsiderate? I say No. I hate
superficial things, superficial people, and superficial tears. They
are not even cheap, they are simply an insult in my eyes.

## phone number is the new SSN

Traveling in China is a trivial matter if you don't have a local phone
number under your name. The phone number is the _new social security
number_ over there. The logic train goes like this: your identity
&rarr; phone number &rarr; bank account &rarr; wechat &rarr; 12306 or
any other apps &rarr; you can use the service of the app. This _other
apps_ includes everything you could think of that involves someone at
the entrance like a guarding dog. Therefore, the chain at work is like
this: at the entrance of the service you want to use, a QR code &rarr;
scan code will force you to install an app specifically designed for
this service, only &rarr; after install, use wechat to SSO, grant
whatever permission the app asks (you **must agree**, otherwise app
installation bails) &rarr; generate a QR code &rarr; scan it as
entrance or show to the person guarding the door &rarr; you can now
use the service. This same sequence applies to all the _services_ you
would use in life:

1. Buy a subway/bus ticket
2. Buy a train ticket. I used Expedia for air ticket and passport was sufficient.
3. Hail a cab
4. Go to a museum, any tourist site including a public park
5. Order at restaurant
6. Buy a toilet paper at a public restroom

It becomes insane, in my opinion, that anything starts w/ you scan a
QR code which leads to either installing an app or a link to a website
page. Either would ask for your granting a list of permissions to it
eg. contacts, photos, and SSO w/ your money managing app such as
wechat or alipay. I could understand requiring an ID to ride a train,
but I am at limit why they need that to ride a subway. Out of the row
of ticket vending machines, only one accepts cash, and only of
denomination of RMB1 coin, or RMB 5 or 10 paper cash. Nothing
else. Asking the girl at service desk to buy a ticket, "go scan the
code". "Can I break a 20 to 10s and 5s?" "No I don't have such
service". I had to break this insane loop by buying a bottle of sth
from a convenient store w/ my RMB20 bill, use the coin change to buy a
RMB2 ticket, drink the water at security check point, promise I won't
drink it on the train, and used the other coins to help other locals
who got stuck just like I was a few minutes ago. Insane, isn't it!?
This is the reality that many were living through, but 90% of the
people were happy about using the app, and we the minority group were
left in the rust by technology wonders, and looked upon by others that
we should be ashamed of ourselves coming out the public like this. The
place is not a technically advanced, it is sickening, the sick of
broadlight discrimination in disguise of technology, the sick of some
developer who faithfully implemented a bullying requirement as if a
German solider pulls a gas chamber switch because he was only
following a command, the sick of designer of such system had little
respect of people who couldn't manage the _happy path_, the sick of
millions who jump through such man-made stupid whoops without
complaints, and the sick of everyone else who felt nothing wrong of
all these when they passed the door w/ their newly generate QR
code. The whole idea, the whole scene, was sickening. This land is
sick, really. It used to be one I enjoyed walking around, watching its
change and progress, laughs at its silly english translation but feels
warm of its efforts behind these mistakes... not anymore. It's a sick
place full of arrogance, self-admiration, brag, indifference, and
unkindness.

## At a noodle shop

Ordered a noodle at a noodle shop. Giving the ticket to the chef. Took
a seat waiting for my turn. Then three people came in. After giving
the chef their tickets, two men stuck themselves right at counter
window where chef would pass on the noodles. I had a hunch I'd better
go to the window before someone hijacks my food. Just then the chef
called out my noodle and I raised my hand to grab it. "Excuse me!" I
said to the man who was literally blocking the delivery window and
squeezed between himself and the window to grab my food. "How come he
orders the same noodle as mine!?" this man was genuinely said that to
my face to express his surprise "Well, isn't this so hard to
understand?" I shot back. I was angry. What type of stupidity could it
be that having someone order the same noodle in a noodle shop who has
but a couple dozen on the menu to choose from!? What really annoyed me
is that his comment wasn't of a surprise he felt of a duplicate order,
but he was unhappy someone was ahead of him taking the noodle which he
thought should be his despite there could be other customers before
his order. So the bottom line of his logic is that he is the center of
the universe the moment he walks in the door, that the entire shop
starts churning for his food, and he should be served asap while no
other in this roof matters. Calling this stupidity is an
understatement. This, is pure, selfish that is bloated out of
proportion, on a common ordinary guy who rides a electric scooter and
eats a bowl of noodle for food. What gives him that idea!? He was like
a fly nearly falling into my noodle soap, as disgusting as someone
nearly put a finger in your food, and it was a too close a call.

## Nanjing, a city of "mocking"

Nanjing was a pretty city judging by its trees along the streets. They
wouldn't have grown to this size if not having a long history
behind. But the entire city reminds me but one word, **mocking**. I
felt sad if Dad could see what I saw. The white marble statue of Sun
was covered w/ dark gray or black dust. No one who walked the room
paid any attention to his words on the wall. They were more fascinated
speculating a locked door behind the statue that his body, or
treasure, is there. The entire tourist site only exists because of his
status and death. Yet most of us, the tourists, acknowledging his
greatness by paying the entrance fee, climbing the stairs for a good
view, but of little to none of his idea, what his dreamed country
should be like, and the dust on his statue. So he, as great as all the
words has made him, is like a monkey on a chain, or a tiger in a cage,
that the owner is interested in selling the tickets for money, and
this monkey, now being a marble one, doesn't even need to be fed. How
convenient. Same goes for all the other places of Guomindang
governments &larr; the people who used to work there are villains, so
they say, selling this country for whatever, but we love their beds,
desks, living spaces, photos, anything, because they become tickets
and $$... a show, a show of putting your enemy on stage to tarnish
while you need to buy a ticket to get permission to throw the ink at
him. What a mock, an ultimate insult!!!!? Great man!? Great man my
ass. I have decided there and then that becoming a famous person would
be the most shameful thing you could do to yourself on this land. It's
worse than a cunt. It's worse than selling your soul to a devil. You
would be selling your soul for a dollar a bush, cheap, trash cheap.

The so called Nanjing forbidden palace has nothing left. Three
elevated stages which would have been the foundation of the three
great halls. Nothing left on them, not even a stone stool on which the
grand wood beams would have been installed. On each stage there is a
sign w/ words explaining the site's _historical significance_. But,
seriously, I couldn't help laughing how BS this entire thing has
become &mdash; this is literally, figuratively an emperor's clothes,
use your imagination that this is the historical site, this is the
greatness you came here to admire, but just a few line of modern
prints are real, everything else, thin air. What is this!? Tourism of
virtual reality? Then why am I here!? I don't know what to make of
this. I can understand some relic sites would have nothing left
physically but a site of ruin. But this one, I don't know, too
virtual, or should I say, unreal, to be called of, anything, but an
emperor's clothes, just like this city, a city of thousands of years of
history, yet it could only produce such a cheap quality relics for its
admirers.

## Guangzhou

Guangzhou impressed me. Riding the subway at its rush hours were not
as unpleasant as I would have expected. Though crowded, the cabin was
quiet. Then, sitting in a basement Starbucks felt much like I were in
Japan instead of a part of China &mdash; music was relaxing, not much
shop noise, customers didn't come in w/ an air of brag, no one chatted
in a loud voice. It was a nice break for me after the long trip of
taking care of dad. Finally I could feel my heart was slowing down, my
mind slowing down, and I could breathe.

Walking into the narrow alley behind or between buildings were quite
something. I don't know how people would live there, and how any
public service such as post office, electricity, gas... how the hell
could anyone manage such navigation!! I would be scared to knock on
any door let alone asking for a payment, and do they even have a
meter!? These places are "a riddle wrapped in a mystery inside an
enigma". It felt like those tropical plants that had lived and grown
on that spot over the years that it took over spaces, air, light, full
of life while also full of suffocation. A part of the popular
neighbourhood was under removal order so that many buildings were
vacant, building left with half of itself, exposing entrances without
a door, windows without a window, rooms without furniture or human,
like a corpse cut open w/ its guts all exposed, on a display in a
broad daylight. I think the city could use some cleanup. But then, I
think those, later I learned a word, city village, is the trademark of
this city. I'm not sure the ones I ran into qualifies for this term,
but they were like nothing I had ever seen.

Yuexiu park was nice. If Nanjing was a city of mocking, then here I
found dignity. The old city walls, if they were real, are very well
maintained and displayed. The enormous banyan tree w/ its roots biting
into the wall reminds me the scene of Angkor Wat. I admire the wild
lifeness of these tropical plants. They seem to burst open anything
that confines its growth. As a man getting older each day I am jealous
of such display of strength and energy, and even ruthlessness.

Wondering around the city aimlessly. The street foods in a narrow
alley next to a public toilet was just the feel I was seeking
for. Sitting on a stool almost in a half-squat position, I was
surprised to see a window of an apartment upstairs in a building
across the alley filled w/ cute stuff animals. At first glance I
thought it would be a store selling them. Then, I looked at it again
and concluded that it must be a residential unit. So whoever lives
there, in this kinda of a building jungle and wire jungle, kept a
sensitive spot for his/her hobby. It's like seeing a wild flower
blooming while you walk in the middle of a dessert.

## Second-hand electronics

Walking into this, to me a nameless place, where second-hand
electronic products are sold, I didn't expect to see so many small
shops next to each other selling hi-fi speakers. They had racks of
used amplifiers, most of them are not interesting at all, some popular
names like Marantz, Japanese brands, McIntosh, but honestly they
looked rather boring.

The stacks of speakers, however, had no name plates I could identify,
jumped to life when they were turned on. Happened to be walking by a
small shop where one man sitting on the couch facing the speakers (and
for the hell I tried I couldn't tell which set of speakers were on!),
the music of Cain Qing was on. In a rather filthy building of such and
a crappy small shop, the sound of her was memorizing! I couldn't say
it was lovely, and certainly her song was picked, I would guess,
mostly because of the movie, so that sense of following a known
receipe is rather against my preference of the spirit of a 文艺青年
being different and unique. Yet, the voice was beautiful! Whatever the
equipments were being used, the effect was surreal. Maybe the settings
did provide a level of contrast, thus creating a wow effect. The boss
looking man was jogging down a price quote so I would guess a deal was
in the making. Still, I was impressed. I don't know how so many small
shops within such a small area could survive. I suspect even that any
of these shops, if they would turn on their stereo, would produce the
same lovely voice as the one I just heard. So, it felt, just like many
other businesses when a Chinese biz man gets involved, that a luxury,
being it a beautiful woman or a brand name product, now sells, still
with a hefty price tag, but lives in filth as a slave. Is it a good
thing for consumers? I doubt. I don't like visit those expansive
looking stores, but I don't like this settings, either. In both cases,
I feel the seller is taking his products as a cold commercial goods,
no warmth in it, it speaks of money, but has no connection of life. In
contrast, stores in Japan, though selling used products also, made you
feel it's a store who is proud of its products, which in turn creates
the sense of trust that you, once walk out of the door, could still
feel comfortable to come back. I don't know what it is. Maybe there is
a version of human connection there, too, since I saw the potential
buyer was comfortably sitting at the couch sipping teas, chatting and
laughing. But there is always this sense of cunningness in those. I'm
biased, maybe.

Then, the little point-and-shoot digital cameras. Wow, I don't know
how many of them have been revived. By seeing so many shops selling
them I could only conclude there is a real demand for such thing. It
felt similar when I saw the old flip phones were sold at the night
market in Cambodia. But in Cambodia you knew they were buying them
because they couldn't afford better. But here I think they are in
demand because they fit in a life style, or an self-image definition,
among young women I think, somehow. I don't know what it is. In the
world of smart phone I really don't see why a woman is willing to
carry yet another small electronic gadget which, in my opinion,
provided little value in term of photography. Actually I didn't see
many in action at all when I was walking around the city. But I'm sure
these shops have keener sense of what is in demand than I do. Could
someone enlighten me on this topic!?

Cameras. Went to a well-known market, which turned out to be a whole
district spreaded over a few street blocks, of camera gears. Just
about 90% of the second hand camera bodies were Nikon and Canon. Other
brands had little footprint, used Fuji, none, used manual lenses, few,
m43 gears, some but certainly not a mainstream, exotic lenses or
cameras, a few, but was not impressive, brands like Olympus, Lumix,
few. Then, in yet another those massive shopping complex, each tiny
shop has a repair station where one guy, yes always one guy, who might
be owner of it, has all sort of broken wires, parts, what have you, of
camera body and lens, and the guy was busy fixing something. I always
thought repairing a lens is a rare skill. Maybe it is, but here you
found a concentration of such skills, all appeared to know what they
are doing, and his shop is testifying it being true. That is quite
amazing!  How did they learn this, I wonder, youtube!?
