Title: Dad
Date: 2022-05-15 13:09
Tags: thoughts
Slug: dad
Author: Feng Xia

This is a month of loss. I should say, this is a year of loss. First,
zhuzhu, then dad.

It has been a week and a day. The last week of his life was rough. I
doubt by his will he would have chosen to live like that. But the sad
thing of a person's end is that the decisions affecting your body and
your pain were made by sometimes strangers. Regardless how your will
has been formulated, in the end, a power outside the ones who care the
most of you takes over, and it is not fun.

How to think of it then? I felt sad when the night I had to sign off
his life. But I feel the dad I know has been long gone. When I was
holding his hand and watching him eating, I don't recognize him
anymore. It was someone else living in that body, the light in the
eyes were shut, and I wonder, what makes a person, who he is?

It seems to be a convention that the last picture in a memorial
service would always be one when he was already old, and I don't like
this idea at all. Why not putting one of his prime time, when he was
eighteen, young, fresh, lively, sunshine, w/ a smile towards the
future, the life, hopeful, fearless, and all possible? I would like to
when it's my time. I don't want to be remembered as a withering old
guy. If anyone cares to remember me, be it that I'm still young,
strong, on my bike riding around, having my camera, my music, my
smile. I think it would be better.

Ray was locked in 41, forever. I felt that the moment dad went, he
actually saw him. The two greeted each other at the threshold. Ray,
just like picking him up from a train station, grabbed his stuff, and
the two chatted, walking along side by side. Where would they go? I
don't know. Maybe another home in that world. Who is there? Maybe just
the two of them, for now. But truthfully, I felt it's nice that way,
that their two paths cross again... how many moments in life would you
have wished that your path and another person's would across one more
time? If this is what happened, then this is quite nice, isn't it?

Living half, maybe more than half now, of the so called life, death,
drifting apart... these have become more and more of a routine instead
of a trauma. I can feel the heart is hardening, there is emotion
still, but less and less there is tears, and the gut wrenching feeling
of the loss. Things happen, people die, everything you hold dear seem
to have an end at some point, and all you can do is to wait till the
moment hits, then, if lucky, you will be there to watch them leave, to
make some tough decisions for them, for their good... at least, it's a
comfort that yours is sincere, and if there were any guilty feelings,
you shoulder them.

I guess that's the best you can do, and the best you should do. See
through a life to its end is hard. Pet, human, family, relative,
stranger... they are all the same. A light is off. You walk slowly to
the door, turn around, look at this room for one more time, take a
breath, gentlly close it behind you.

Farewell, Dad. Wait for me, till we meet again.
