Title: Details
Date: 2019-01-11 15:45
Tags: thoughts
Slug: details
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="/images/fire%20on%20the%20plain.png"/>
</figure>

Devils are indeed in details. Watching a Japanese movie [Fire on the
Plain][1], it suddenly reminded me a topic I have always wanted to
write about &mdash; you know, when we are listening to the wonderful
story of the Three Kingdoms, and fancy how powerful China was, and how
you could also be a hero, neither the author, nor anyone has lived off
these stories, such as nowadays talk show hosts, bother to mention to
you at all, that if there were indeed an army of that size &mdash; a
few hundred thousands, or even millions, how terrible the smell their
camp must have been!

Yes. We heard in 评书 of 埋锅造饭, and there are many stories about
how an army can run out of food, and how you can raid your enemy's
food line to arouse a panic. But, no one has described the other end
of the human digest system &mdash; shits! Literally. If you eat, you
shit. They have to come out, somehow, some way, some day. No
exception. As a matter of fact, I would even fancy (well, I'm using
the word "fancy" because myself never had experience of starvation,
thus can only speculate) that holding shit from coming out is more
difficult than enduring a few days of hunger. I can totally see myself
skip a few meals to survive, and even happy (ask Noah and he will
definitely agree), but holding from toilet for a few days!?.... very
unlikely.

So there it is. If I were a general back in those days, I could tell
the size of an army by counting how smelly their camp was. Especially
back then public health was a thing never heard of. My friend in Tibet
is still struggling w/ a resident without a proper toilet to go to, in
21st century, then what's the odds that ancient army has such a
discipline to deal with that!? 

Further, if such knowledge and practice has existed and has been used
in such a massive scale &larr; we are talking about a lot of people,
males mostly, concentrated in a tight space and in a short period of
time, then why not we never heard about anything in books? in talks?
The people, so called fighters, existed with a curious attribute that
they have all the other human features except this one thing! How
wonderful!

Think about it. If they didn't dig toilet, then the camp would be a
massive shit dump! Will the tent next to you care anything about you
stepping onto their shits!? probably not. So everyone takes his path
of lease resistence &mdash; being the most convenient for him, at that
emergency moment, and forget about social etiquete! Then what will
that camp look like? smell like? errrr............

Now someone will say, oh, they have toilet like we do. Then, let's
say how many these facilities they will have!? It has be many many
many, because, when you live w/ even a few thousand people, the ground
it takes to have all these people lie down is quite large. Therefore,
are you going to walk across a few miles just to pee!? Maybe not. So
there must be a facility near you or your group. Well, then this
becomes a math exercise: for an army of 100,000, let's say 100 people
share a toilet, then there needs to be, 1000 toilets! and you know
what, digging those things are not that easy! and what about when you
are marching into a territory in which digging a toilet is not
possible, say, winter in New England!?

Everytime when I watched movie that soldiers are ambushing an enemy by
lying and waiting for hours there, I was always wondering, what if I
need to pee right now? or shit? Pee might be ok. But shit!? I mean, I
can do that, but that smell will give away our position, right!? and
it won't be just me, what if quite a few of my band of brothers had
the same need!? 

Details, details, details. I looked at Vietnam war movies, and saw
American barracks. They make sense. There is toilet. But in China's
grand military stories, no one shits, physically.

This is fxxx miracle. 



[1]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I0wv79C0zqc
