Title: Domain knowledge
Date: 2018-11-10 04:50
Tags: thoughts
Slug: domain knowledge
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col l6 m6 s12">
  <img src="images/world%20domination.jpg"/>
</figure>


What is a domain knowledge? Domain knowledge implies a knowing of a
specific area of knowledge, like plumber knows plumbing. It's quite
easy to picture that everyone, or should say every profession, is a
its own domain, thus has its own knowledge, which in true, in the same
sense that goes by a Chinese saying, 隔行如隔山. 

However, if we take it broadly, I would argue everything, every
person, has a domain knowledge of a sort that is unique only to that
person. Watching those "10 coolest hand-made toys" youtube videos make
you wonder how creative this person is, how much time s/he has at
hand, and deep down you also know that your brain is not up that, even
given you as much time &mdash; you two are simply, different. Thus,
wouldn't it be fair to say that his/her domain knowledge is different
from yours then!? I think so. No two people are alike, which not only
means that no two people look identically, but also emphasizes their
knowledge repository, the structure of how they think, how they
perceive, how they process information and derive conclusion, and how
they reason &rarr; in short, their domains are just different, thus
their domain knowledge will be different.

But "different" is itself a broad concept. It's another always-true
statement that people are just different &larr; the counter argument
will be to find a black swan so to prove this statement is wrong. But
this type of always-true statement is not refutable. It has positioned
the question in such a way that it is simply futile to search for a
counter example. Rather, I would challenge the original argument and
its definition  in order to narrow down the scope of it. Once it
becomes more concrete ("being different" is quite an abstract concept,
but narrowing it down to "how are they different? they have different
colors." Well, that is refutable now, if we further define what is
color, and so on...), it becomes actioinable &larr; we can either
prove it right, or wrong.

The reason I am talking about domain knowledge, is that at work I have
constantly run into ideas and projects, my own moonlight POCs
included, that when presenting to another audience to so called
_discussions_, there are always two tyes of reactions &mdash; some
find it exciting and _like it_, and some put out a few concerns and
counter example, not to plainly shoot down the idea, but to bring in
caution and further _discussions_ &rarr; these are all good point. But
my question is &mdash; how do you distinguish yourself from an
**existing** competitor!?

We recognize a "problem", and think we have a good idea to "fix
it". We even wrote some code to POC its feasibility and are hoping to
show its value. But the hard question is always, why you!? why yours!?
I used to draw this discussion eventually to domain knowledge, that
ours is, should be, better, because we have a better domain knowledge,
than competitors'. And if there is a work lagging, I would think that
they have not done their homework right to discover, consolidate, and
benefit from their domain knowledge. This sounds quite alright. But
with the arguments I have presented at the beginning of this article,
wouldn't it now sound fishy that using this ambiguous term is nothing
but to make myself sound smart which, by being an always-true
statement, giving others no chance to prove me wrong!? 

This is terrible. But I don't want to yet give up its use. Here is
why. Take this hardware management tool for example. On one hand there
are opensource projects, free of charge; on the other company develops
a product. How to make the company one stand out then!? I mean, we
will lose to opensource simply by the sheer number of
developers, don't you think!? And in nowadays' tech stack, toolsets
are increasingly converging, meaning that if I were a front-end
developer and am asked to draw a line graph, there are only a few
libraries come to mind &mdash; they all look alike, regardless how
well I can tweak them. And with that we also know that value is not at
the line graph even, it is what that graph can tell me, and what I can
do with that info, really matters. So how to achieve these two!?
Domain knowledge.

I firmly believe this is your only chance to stand out, and should be
the only criteria &mdash; **fundamentally it is information
asymmetry**. I have already said before that power lies in this, so
that's where the power to win over competition lies. There is no other
way. Vendor doesn't even need to intentionally build that barrier by
using something like a trade secret or patent, which lead to another
lengthy debate of moral sense of knowledge. Let's keep an open book. I
always argue that when was the last time you were willing to look at
someone's code, and could actually understand what it was saying!? or,
take any Physics text book, the laws are written down, figured out!
Yet, did you ever read them? and fewer understands them even! 

Therefore, domain knowledge is not secret, but a theory or practice
that is hard to replicate because of its complexity, not of its
secrecy. Vendor is naturally positioned in the front row of this race,
because they created that product at the first place &mdash;
naturally, he knows more of it than anyone else &larr; here, I want to
emphasize again that competing on just sheer data point level is going
to be a losing battle &mdash; collect and display the same data point,
CPU, temperature, raid controller models... these are essential, but
these are the starting line every racer is at. Your advantage as a
vendor should display in the domain knowledge of what those numbers
mean, and what we could do with them &mdash; CPU goes up 100%, is this
good? bad? When upgrading firmware, wouldn't vendor's tool, however
ugly it may be, still holds an edge over an opensource approach,
simply because we think vendor knows better of that level of
operation, and firmware is so fundamental that getting it wrong will
just kill your thousand dollar equipment!? These, is what I will call
domain knowledge &mdash; an edge over others not because we keep
information from others. On the contrary, we just know more, know
better, and are fully willing to share. But these knowledge, really we
should call them **experience**, like a personal experience, is so
hard to transfer, that it makes you, unique, thus valuable.

For these data driven applications, I think we can view them in three
layers:

1. Do I have data points that others don't have? &rarr; protocol, or
   sheer openness.
2. Do I know a scenario of these data points that others don't have?
   &rarr; support cases is a wealthy mine of real world experience. 
3. When taking an action, can I keep the system stable and healthy
   better than others can?
   
I feel we have focuses too much on #1, which leads to competition of
cosmetic, user experience, and at most, convenience. However, none of
these will give you an edge:

1. cosmetics: I have already said that toolsets are converging. Your
   line graph will not be that much different from ours. And even it's
   pleasing to look at, one quickly gets bored of it, and will ask the
   question &mdash; what does this line mean?
   
2. UX: this is an endless discussion, and let's leave it to people who
   have passion of, humans.
   
3. convenience: do you realize that this actually implies that
   customer knows the same as you do!?  They are already doing it, but
   you think you have a better way. Then of course, the question is,
   how much better is yours? Well, this is like proving yourself worth
   being loved this girl, and we all know that's just pointless
   &mdash; she loves, or not, has nothing to do with how good a person
   you actually are.
   
Instead, point #2 is a info repo vendor natually has, but simply will
not be accessible by the public, and don't we all know how creative
and bizarre the real world can be!? This gives you information that is
exclusive, and that leads to advantage!

Point #3 should come out of #2, and one failed at this, one should
fail to distinguish oneself, because this is where the gold is, this
is the **domain knowledge**. Getting to this is hard, but that's how
it should be done.

So this lengthy, ambiguous, argument, is what I think about domain
knowledge.  Confusing, isn't it!?
