Title: Feeling down
Date: 2022-08-31 21:27
Tags: thoughts
Slug: feeling down
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="images/DSC_1280653.JPG"/>
</figure>

Haven't written anything for a while. I had moments that I felt I
wanted to say something. But those moments were all moment of sadness
suddenly hitting me &mdash; they made me miss zhuzhu, miss dad, and
started to feel, lonelier and lonelier in this world when all these
lives dear to me are passing away. It felt like cutting strings that
are attaching me to this world, and I'm afraid that when more strings
were cut loose, I may snap one day, because there really isn't much I
couldn't put down anymore. Even Noah is growing up, becoming more and
more independent, and watching him now stepping to high school makes
me both happy and scared &mdash; happy for him becoming himself and a
nice young man, sad for him being the strongest tie to hold me
together is having less and less effect on me, and I could now picture
myself going far far away without fearing too much of him being well,
being taken care of. Maybe taking a trip to Japan and living there for
a while will a natural step to bring me yet further away from him, and
eventually would make me disappearing from this world, from his world,
not that much a shock. I guess that is how a life goes.

Sitting on the balcony this evening. Beautiful sunset. It's like a
human life, too, that there is a moment when the burning orange on the
horizon is so bright, vivid, and heartwarming, then, that perfect
moment lasts for only a few seconds, then the blue sky is like a
person's youth, becoming more and more a contrast to the horizon, as
if the youth is coming back again. Yet, it becomes darker and darker,
turned to a gray, then finally an ink sky... just like my life right
now, standing at horizon of a sunset looking back to my youth, they
seem so near and recent, yes they look beautiful from here, and I miss
those days now, but they are just eclipse of memory, gone into the
vacuum of past, no more, no more.

I miss zhuzhu. Sometimes I could feel his eyes looking at me, and his
body leaning on me, with him gentle snore and a cute face. How
wonderful it was then when this were the days. Wherever you are now,
maybe a parallel universe, maybe another life, take care of
yourself. It has been my tremendous luck being with you for these
years.
