Title: Funeral
Date: 2019-12-13 12:26
Tags: love
Slug: funeral
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12 center">
  <img src="images/funeral.jpg"/>
  <figcaption>
  From a photo book, "五彩凉山", 2005 by 韩达华， found in 楠院，会理
  </figcaption>
</figure>


Human emotion, are the same.

Regardless gender, race, poverty, wealth, where you are from, what you
have been, what you are, emotions, are the same &mdash; when you are
happy, you laugh; when you are sad, you cry.

I can't help crying over this picture. Picked it up off the book shelf
in 楠院, out of nowhere, here it is, a picture I truely feel the
emotion, that when you loved ones are leaving, how can't you not
feeling sad!? how can't you not feeling loneliness!? how can't you,
not cry!?

I have always felt that there is something about human's sadness, that
it's such a powerful, contiguous feeling, that if you are truly a
person that has not yet died inside, you will feel it, you will, as if
the event is happening to yourself, that it is really not something
external, strange to you, but part of you, part of your life.

Strange? No. Precious. Only by being able to feel the others', that I
think it makes one person a true person &mdash; only w/ the emotion,
however it is, it tells myself that, yes, I can still feel, I can
still love. 

I can't be w/ you anymore. It's ok. Sitting in this court yard,
bathing in this winter warmth, I'm feeling the closest to you, to
where you have been, to where you might be, someday. Yet, I know I'm
leaving this place, and leaving all the good days behind. I don't know
I will ever step into this town, into this city, into this area. But
my dear, believe me, I left a lot here, left them in the air, in the
sun ray, in the echos of the geeses, in the profile of the mountains,
in the breeze that brushes over the leaves, in the pond w/ the little
fish, in the fire and smoke at night, in the pebbles I stepped on, in
the dust I cleaned and wishing, that someday, when you are here, they
might tell you, that one day, there was a person, who travelled far
far far away to here, cleaned up this place as if he were expecting a
guest.

Yes, it was me, and I did all these, because, I so wished, you would
be here, as a guest, one day.
