Title: Consume the future
Date: 2017-05-24 8:36
Tags: thoughts
Slug: future value
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col l6 m6 s12">
  <img src="{{SITEURL}}/images/funny/kickoff.jpg"/>
</figure>

I was thinking about [future value][1] this morning. Why? because I
was thinking about this Chinese phrase, 寅吃卯粮, which means that one
consumes savings meant for future use. The term bears a negative
emotion that is used to criticize someone or some action that is
irresponsible (in view of the present) and generally a bad idea. After
all, shouldn't one only use what his means can cover? It is a
conservative approach, and also sustainable.

What's the equivalent in
english? I thought of future value. Isn't it the same thing that we
are mapping future values to current so we can benefit from, or
consume, it right now. For all we know, forget about the future. It's
uncertain and nobody knows how well those so called **future values**
will be realized and how well they matching our estimation right now.

[1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Future_value

The reason I was toying these terms was that I was thinking the <span
class="myhighlight">root cause of wealth</span>. I always thought that
the only way to become rich is to take leverage. What is a leverage,
borrowing money, use the resource that you don't own, and with less
cost than the benefit you can get out of them. A convenient way is
certainly to borrow from the someone, somewhere, and don't need to pay
for it. It's free money, isn't it?  **Future** seems to be a perfect
candidate for this. Nobody has a crystal ball that actually works, but
everyone has a lot of hope. And what is expectation? it is completly
subjective, opinionated, and absolutely impossible to validate (until
it becomes history).  But doesn't the logic smell wrong?  How can you
get a free lunch without paying a price? and if it's not you who pays
the price, then who will? I learned FV in MBA class. The math is
simple enough and at the time I thought this is an artificial
invention used only in finance to make yourself look smart, important
and closer to the truth of wealth. But suddenly I had a thought
&mdash; no, it is not a new concept, and it is not just in finance. It
is everywhere.

# FV the consumer

Stock price, bond price are all computed based on FV. Market adjusts
their prices based on runtime guess of what the FV is like. Therefore
it will fluctuate constantly. In its core it is consensus decision
making where all market participants are casting a vote.  The price
is nothing but a form of FV. But finance ppl are crooks, you say. They
invented these theories so to justify their irresponsible actions
today. How can there be no harm done if to take what belongs to the
future and use them now? Just take a look at social security, working
class are paying for their parents' generation, and so hope their kids
will pay theirs. This is a ponzi scheme in reality. So what is a
counter example to this? How about manufacturing? They are solid ppl
who make stuff, and making stuff creates value. You can **NOT** BS around
making a solid bulk of physical stuff, a pile of steel that hums,
works, and makes your life better. Well, let's see. 

You have a need to wash your clothes. When you buy a washing machine,
you have taken the underline assumption that you will be using it not
just once, but multiple times in the future. There is a life time by
design, of course, and no one really keeps track of how many loads one
does per week, and how many uses you will be doing in the next 5 years
or before the machine is broken. But that's exactly how the price
represents &mdash; one implicitly gives each load a price, multiplied
over a time span and FV back to the present! This explains exactly why ppl
cares about quality &mdash; because one doesn't know how many times
she is going to use the washing machine, the longer it last, or the
more loads you throw at it, the greater its FV should be, then
discounted to PV, it should have a higher price. Now if you buy it
lower than the PV in your mind, you feel it is a good deal &mdash;
this, I call it <span class="myhighlight">the truth of the consumer
threshold</span>.

# FV the service

The story doesn't end here. So after all, the logic of FV is correct?
The financial gurus and manufacturer of consumer goods are all
operating by the same principle. What about the present? We constantly
hear the preach that happiness is about the present and one should
live by the moment. Then how can one do that if one's consumer
instinct is naturally about the future, about FV. Is there anything
only valued at present? How about food? Food is consumed in the
moment, right? There isn't a future value associated with it, or is
there? Or any other service, a haircut, a smile from a cashier,
grocery shopping... transactions are done then and now, you pay, you
get your goods, done, period.

We don't lump sum future services and discount them to a PV price, do we?
or we actually do? When I sit in a restaurant ordered a dish, am I
only paying for this round, this dish, or there is a share of the well
being of this restaurant tomorrow, and next week? Certainly the profit
is the media, or the hidden contract, between me as the consumer
eating this dish, and the restaurant who does its share to be here and
continue its service and maintain its quality. How well, or strong,
should both parties support this bond? Doesn't this make those
thin-margin, low-prices strategy a weaker contract or equally the
same? and when we shop in those value stores, are we lowering our
expectation, thus our FV, but still expecting the contractual
__promise__ hold true?  

Everybody understand you get what you
pay for. Yet, we constantly struggle between a mismatched
over-estimated FV (by our subjective will) and perception of a less
qualified product/service. In math term and in common sense, this gap
will never go away, and should never go away. If FV becomes a fixed
value (think about planning economy where some God view determines a
price, how ridiculous it is if you think of it in this context &mdash;
consensus voting is the only way to discover and determine this value,
therefore the market), how to fix the PV offered by service providers?
and even more troublesome is that how do you know the consumer agrees
with provider on each other's estimation? Taking the washing machine
example, I am willing to put in $1 for a load, and wash weekly. So
10yr span will cost me $520. Anything more expansive than this is a
ripoff, unless I decide to wash 2 loads per week now or the machine
lasts more than 10 years.

Turn the able around, if I manufacture washing machine, I want to know
how many loads **in avg** a family of size-xyz (look up your country's
demographics and household size) will do, and how much they are
willing to pay per such use, then take the design life that I can
deliver (again, **in avg**), it's the price my consumers are willing
to accept. The trick then, is how well I can discover these numbers
comparing to how well my competitors are using these numbers. If my
competitor builds a machine twice as durable as mine but sell at the
same PV, should I panic? Obviously now with the context we have
discussed, the key to answer this is <span class="myhighlight"> not
how durable his machine is, but how often consumer changes their
machines</span>! &mdash; the design life time should last slightly
longer than what customers are expecting to use it for, in theory. If it is
**too durable**, it is an over design and is a waste. Therefore, a
strategy to defeat my competitor at perception level, I want to show a
machine that lasts twice as long as others' in the market &mdash; no
one is to going to keep it that long, but the image matters.

# Marketing time

<figure class="col l4 m4 s12">
  <img src="{{SITEURL}}/images/funny/direct%20marketing.jpg"/>
</figure>


Well, the scenario we discussed so far is implying that consumer will
determine the end date of your discount period &mdash; averagely use a
washing machine for 10 years. We know PV is heavily depending on the
time length. Can we determine or control this time length then?

Many variables come to play, disruptive technology, shift of consumer
interest, fashion, some social change, new generation... this becomes
a fuzzy war. So we need marketing, a voice in consumer's head that now
you should ditch the old product and buy a new one. The more effective
marketing is done, the more deterministic the replenish cycle can
be. Therefore, marketing pushes the FV as much as possible, and
controls the discount period as much as possible. In math it then
becomes apparent the shorter the cycle the higher the PV. Therefore,
if FV are similar, competitors have a diring need to shorten the
cycle, and this I believe is the true root cause of product
innovation &rarr; to the control the cycle. 


Interesting, isn't it? So back the our initial topic, I used to think
FV is a fancy term that MBA uses to showoff his education.  Now I
realized FV and PV are everywhere. It is the only way to perceive this
world, it is human nature. So again, I start to believe more and more
that economy and finance are not about numbers, theories of money or
currency or some conspiracy theory of political domination. It is
about human nature, about what we really are. Extract the underline
assumption, and you will see what these terms really mean.
