Title: A minor upset
Date: 2018-01-09 09:55
Tags: thoughts
Slug: grownup kid
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col l6 m6 s12">
  <img src="images/funny/interview.png"/>
</figure>

I think, well, actually not that I think, I feel, I feel it with me,
that I have grown very much impatient with Noah's mom now. This is
really sad. I think there is something up to her life recently, too
&mdash; she was not being patient with Noah, actually I would say
_less patient_ with him than I do these days even. I don't know. It
could be just a period, but then, it's not like her.

Then, I got a phone call from our contractor asking about the vanity
doors. Honestly I haven't seen them much since they were removed, and
have little idea where they are. Yet, just from the conversation I
picked up from her this weekend, I had a faint idea of what happened
to it, and of course, a phone call verified the hunch.

This makes me wonder, why so? and does it matter at all? and why do I
get upset? First of all, the matter is such a minor case that it
doesn't lend itself to a reason to frustrate. Yes it is an
inconvenience; nah, it doesn't hurt things I deem important, the place
will come together, the contractor will be a bit upset (but then he is
always a bit upset, as a technique I believe), and the _harmony_ or
the feeling of peace of mind is certainly more important than a
missing vanity door, which is being disregarded anyway. So why do I
feel upset, at least at that moment?

I think what really upset me, is the thought that this is a case
proving my **bias** that she has a terrible judgement. This is too
strong a word and statement, and I feel actually quite uncomfortable
with it as I don't even use them on people who really pissed me
off. Yet, that's how I feel, about her. I don't know how to describe
it, nor having a clear thoughts on what it means. It's a feeling, a
confession, an, even I would say a guilty expectation, that she will
make such a fall. **This is not fair to her at all**! But why can't I
check myself when it comes to her case!? I feel I'm just chanting the
thought that "you are wrong you are wrong you are wrong..." until, as
sure as it must be eventually (as anything could possibly be, after
all, no one, nothing, is perfect anyway!), she will be wrong &mdash;
isn't this the same that I always look at China's booming economy with
a pessimistic view, until someday it proves this case and I will be
like, "ah ha, I knew it!"

But seriously, this is such a bad way to look at things! This is just,
dark! **This makes me actively seek for faults in these negative views
so to prove the view itself, therefore it becomes a self-fulfilled
prophecy!** This is just, terrible, unfair. What kind of person am I?

But why!? is that because I have already determined her image
therefore seeking to prove it? or, taking the China economy as the
case, that fundamentally I feel left-out without being benefitted?
What if I were the lucky one who came out on top of the ride? Would I
still be as **biased** and **unfair** as I am today!? Isn't the view
that I'm holding against her really roots in the fact that I have lost
her on the way but I'm still viewing myself in a light of being worthy
having!? What happens if I adjust my own view so that she made the
right decision to leave, and I am not worth her time anymore!? But
then, who wants to admit that to oneself!? or to live with this view!?
Because I think this just leaves to elimination of self-confidence, which then
leads to depression, then to, what, death!? If you don't think of
yourself worth having, man, that just can't be good.

And also, why you want to think that way anyway!? You are not that
good, but not that bad either. Objectively speaking, you two are just
growing apart. Why being resentful, being unfair, being upset!? I
don't get upset much by any stranger having a terrible judgement, why
is it different on her case then? Doesn't it mean that I still view
her not as another stranger yet? or even worse, I view her as a
stranger that is worse than an average one, because I think I know she
could have done better?

Maybe that's why. Like the [frustration logic][1], it's the false
feeling of control and expectation that leads me to this. But then,
the only alternative, if a peace of mind is the goal, is not caring
anymore. And with Noah and fluffies attached to this relationship, it
is an impossibility. So really people get upset about a mistake or an error
is that they extrapolate that onto something or someone they actually
do care about. If there is a distance between that mistake and the
caring target, it becomes pretty easy to visualize that the more
extrapolation one does, the more likely it will reach a point touch
those target, therefore leading to upset.


[1]: {filename}/thoughts/age%20and%20maturity.md

So with this, I can see that being upset of someone is indeed unfair!
You are the one doing the extrapolation. How far you care that logic
is completly up to you. The person who has done something, whether
good or bad, has no control, but the _perception_ of that act is being
depending on your degree of extrapolation now. So it is unfair to
blame at all; you already choose to blame and are only seeking
evidence to support your conclusion by extrapolation until that act
touches something you care. You could have also chosen to stop the
extrapolation short, as we often say "taking the matter as it is",
don't **over-**extrapolating things.


But either way, if one takes a view of an action never in light of how
it is going to impact me or someone I care, then, there will be
nothing left to be cared about, and one becomes a cold-hearted,
souless, walking dead. That's a doom, too.

Man, this logic, is actually very depressing, indeed.
