Title: Heroes
Date: 2020-02-09 14:37
Tags: thoughts
Slug: heroes
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="images/hero.jpg"/>
</figure>

I have stated a thought on heroes in a [previous article][1]. However,
after browsing the Wechat and saw all the posts of videos and articles
on cities sending medical teams to Hubei or Wuhan on a heroic trip as
if sending troops to the frontline, I have been thinking twice about
this word &mdash; heroes.

What are they? Are they commoners, who just got unlucky, caught by a
moment of history, that his/her saying turned out to be a reality,
thus they are now hailed as a prophet &rarr; a smaller figure of God,
but a greater figure of human? Saw the news of Dr. Li's death
yesterday was heartbreaking. I felt I wanted to say something,
something nice about this person, something, showing off the bright
side of me, that I care, that I'm angry at the reality, that I have a
tender heart towards his tragedy .... but you see, everything I'm
laying out here, starts with an "I". **The news was all over the
platform for exactly one day. One day!** &rarr; Wechat is indeed a
mirror of the modern Chinese mentality: short memory, short attention
span, even for heroes &larr; Li never dreamed of his fate ending like
this, not even when he sounded _alarm_, which at the time was nothing
more than a personal opinion that was a fable voice among million of
other loud shouts online &mdash; honestly, who cares!?  who cared!? He
was not a hero, and I truly wish he isn't one now, either, because
being one is not fun &mdash; you don't choose to become one, you are
made to become one.

Why do people hail a hero? Do they really respect them? Admire them?
Want to become them? So many would say, of course. But not
really. Let's be honest w/ ourselves. Do you want to be a hero? Like
Dr. Li? If given the opportunity of rolling back in time and swap him
out w/ you, will you!? I won't, not if I know it's death waiting for
me at the other end, in what, 20 days!? By setting up a statue of him,
width:100%;all of us can now hide in the shadow of his figure, as if we are in
line with his thinking and his doing, but is only to avoid facing our
own cowardice, facing the reality of his actually not-so-inevitable
fate, and facing to challenge the status quo, that, if perpetuated,
will one day make one of us, another hero, in this same fashion &larr;
we all know it is going to happen, just don't know who is going to win
that lottery. We hail hero as if a tribe is chanting a song to their
sacrifice, and lavishly slapping a crown of honor in their name only
to justify our own guilt. What a shame! We need that shadow to cover
us all, the larger, the better.

**To think of it, I don't want to be hero; I don't want anyone I know to
become a hero; I don't want to run into a hero in my daily routine as
they were becoming so many by being mass produced by a systematic
method. No!**

I want to live in a place and time that commoners live their selfish
lives and bicker over their daily nuances as their most agonizing
experience, feel a broken heart from a breakup, struggle with daily
chores or a terrible boss/job, live unhappily as these tiny little
things annoy the hell out of them... but not any historical moment in
book, whether from the past or from the future, that is said to
witness the grandness of time, of achievement, of progress, of turning
point, of achieving the unachievable, of proving us once more
overcoming a surmount peril... no, none of these! Because grand era
calls for great sacrifices, the one who actually moved the needle
never knew s/he was making the history &mash; they were caught by it,
thus is a tragedy; the one who were the sacrifices, had been proven
over and over and over again, would never bring rain, or peace, or
God's favor, as planned. They are less than a tragedy; they are wasted
by ignorance, by arrogance, by bureaucracy, by propaganda, by anything
except your own will.

What would I do if I were to send a group of people going to war, or
to Wuhan? No camera. No flower. No crowd. Family and friends only, if
they want to say farewell. I will watch them go by, if can be, one by
one, as slow as it permits, and try to print down in my brain as much
as I can, their faces, their voices, who they shaked hands, whom they
hugged the longest time... Yes, bring a camera for that matter, so to
remember all these &mdash; it is not a witness of glory, but a witness
of incompetence and of shame, and I will watch over and over and over
again, in private, only alone, so I could now cry, as hard as I can,
as I owe them not only tears, but so much that I will never be able to
compensate, to reconcile. 

[1]: {filename}/thoughts/coronavirus.md
