Title: History, choice
Date: 2019-04-17 11:04
Tags: thoughts
Slug: history choice
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col l6 m6 s12">
  <img src="images/chinese%20selfie.jpg"/>
</figure>

This is a tough one, actually, because the topic is really deep. In
this aftermath of the Nortre Dame fire, the idea of restoring the
damage immediately comes to everybody's mind.

Inevitably, however, there are always, two choices &mdash; to rebuild
it as it was, or to build it as we want them, today? Obviously by
posing them in front of you, you see the merits in both
directions. Yet, as a historical trademark, the lean towards the
former is much stronger than the latter. But this exactly raises a
question that I want to talk about &mdash; history.

I have been reading quite some history books, and in recent days start
to read books written by historian on history. It is really
fascinating, because I have never realized the word history is not as
clear as it seems, at all! We have been taking for granted that
history = old, = the past. But to think about it, if the event has
already past, are we just reconstructing it today? After all, the
writer was not necessarily a witness, a participant, or even born back
then. Thus the whole idea of reconstruction is really a matter of a
personal choice of materials and perception of how the event was
unfolded, wasn't it!? If you walk in any book store and look at the
"history" section, there are always books that describe the huge
impact of a small, ordinary thing, that has changed the fate of
mankind &mdash; chicken, sugar, rice, anything goes. If you think of
it, it is hardly arguable that any in your life, as of today, is
unimportant &mdash; really, name one thing in your life that you can
go without, I mean, go without for the rest of your life.. well,
abstract such as pain, suffering, poverty don't count. I mean,
physical, things.

So, this brings us back to the discussion that what to build for the
Nortre Dame. First of all, can we really reconstruct as it were!?
Hardly, or should we just say, impossible. For one, materials are
different now from 800 years ago, so are the engineering. Therefore,
the replica can be as truthful as all the blueprints are saying. Yet,
it is different. It looks the same, but it is different, better,
actually.

Second, why should we? We admire its beauty because it reflected what
was then. Exactly because such beauty has sustained time for so long,
that we make it a close thing to eternity. But, if we fast forward 800
more years, wouldn't people want to see what represents, today, that
we are currently living and breathing everyday, instead of an
interpretation version of something we could only speculate? In other
words, shouldn't the responsibility of architecture to be the document
of that time, instead of some other time!? You can take any iconic
construction, and see this logic applies &mdash; Ankor Wat, the
Forbidden Palace, the Empire State building... each is a symbol of its
time. It would be rather strange if the Ankor Wat was really built as
a replica of another temple 800 years before it. I mean, it would be
cool and alright. But, wouldn't we then lose the document of its own
time? 

This makes me start to believe that each generation indeed bears the
responsibility to be truthful to themselves &mdash; if they were ugly
people, so be it, generate some ugly arts, as long as they did come
from their heart and soul.

I have been a critics of all the ugly Chinese modern buildings back
then. Now writing this, I start to reflect on this point. I was
biased. They, actually did their part in history. Though I don't like
the result, but nonetheless, I'm not to be the judge. Nor even time
could be the judge. But only the eyes of the some other generation
down the line will fit to look at the era and say, "Look, this is the
icon of that century (that dynasty, that time, or that generation)",
and there will be no right or wrong, good or bad, but representative
vs. one-of-kind outlier.

This reminds the openining of Kenneth Clark's documentary,
[Civilization](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w6qYjisp51M), that if
to choose what can truthfully represent the time, it will be arts
&mdash; not writing of any kind, but arts &mdash; buildings,
paintings, music....even the _bad_ ones, or shouldn't we say,
especially the bad ones!? In general, they are more true than others,
they always carry a strong emotion, have a strong message, always
always being the cutting edge of what people felt at that time.

So leave the taste out, they are the perfect ear marks. I don't love
them in many cases; but they are wonderful, as history.



