Title: Hurricane
Date: 2018-09-10 16:37
Tags: thoughts
Slug: hurricane
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col l6 m6 s12">
  <img src="{{SITEURL}}/images/japan%20poster.jpg"/>
</figure>


So there is a hurricane coming to NC. The curious thing, however, is
that there is an air of excitement in the air &larr; everybody is
rushing to grocery to stock up food, people calling each other just to
exchange that `Costco has run out of water since yesterday`.. actually
now thinking back, I think this same pattern has played out also when
Boston was hit by snow storms, that people were both nervous and
excited.

To think of it, I think this speaks about human psychie. 

First of all, this risk is certainly not really being taken as a risk,
at all. Let me ask you this, if this risk is plainly a risk that you
won't survive if caught in it, will you even feel any chance of "yeah
let's go to buy some bottle water!?" The underline message of this
madness is that all these people are 100% sure that they will survive,
they will be fine, and hardly they even expect their daily convenience
will be interrupted at all &larr; here is my toilet flushing, my
running water so I can take shower, and Netflix works smoothly, maybe
even my 5G is never down so I can update my profile w/ some stormy
pictures... this is nothing but a kid's thriller ride in a theme
park:"ahhhhh....."  splash... all soaking wet, but everybody is
laughing. Doesn't this speak for human's tendency to underestimate
risk, or putting in an encouraging spin, that human is optimistic?

Secondly, excuses. I think human needs excuses, in order to justify
their action, especially the ones that they know themselves that they
are unusual, outliers. For example, everybody is driving in a rush
with a sense of emergency and purpose. How interesting! Everybody is a
on mission, "I need to get to the store" "I need to buy this"... for a
cause that human has no control whatsoever, it is the perfect clause
to give everybody a purpose, instantly. Since no one's action caused
this hurricane, my madness of driving and honking and impatience at
the checkout line is perfectly justified, understood, if not
absolutely expected. Does this speak for built-in self-importance that
everybody has? Yes I think so. Hurricane is a God's act, it's meant to
remind his creation that regardless how much steel you have, you can
be crushed easily with his whip. Yet, the contrary is achieved &larr;
everybody is made important, is feeling important. If God is watching,
he has to be upset, "what the heck!?"

Third, living for a purpose. Ordinary life is boring,
purposeless. Having a kid gives one a purpose, so each parent acts
with a will of steel. Same when there is a crisis in a scale, a
natural disaster, a war, a movement, a tribal fight..... human needs
something in mind in order to feel life. The day when I have a thought
to write or a diagram to create, I feel good. But how could that be!?
Don't we all hate tasks? when did you ever feel happy when your boss
walks to you and said "here I got you 10 more things to do"!? Then why
having something-to-do actually makes you, excited!? I think at least
there is a different between being excited versus being happy. My
theory is that the excitement raises your energy level so you don't
feel as tired, therefore it appears that you are happier!
Anyway. People need tasks, need to-dos, I think the difference is
tasks that are `doable` & `I need it anyway`, are ok; the work ones
are the `I dont know how to do this either` kind, and that tips people
off.

Fourth, god-send-vacation. This natural disaster must be bad for
business owners. I just watched a girl from nearby Chinese restaurant
walking to grocery and came back w/ nothing in hand. I guess their
business model has been that zero stock of ingredient but re-stock
from this grocery when running low. This is common but how they are
going to operate today when everybody is rushing to this same grocery
to buy out EVERYTHING!?  But for corporate employees, this is really
really good &mdash; no responsibility, no obligation, plenty
possibility down the line, and zero fault! This is free-jail
card. What a relief for everybody when life itself is full of
responsibility and deadlines? You know, I kind of wonder whether we
should call this natural disaster, or a natural holiday!? I vote for
holiday, because it really is.

Fifth,  community feeling.  It has  long  been rumored  that human  is
social animal,  that you feel  better when connected with  other human
beings. The problem,  of course, is that few is  connected to you, and
you are willing to  connect to few. All of sudden,  now everyone is in
this same  group of  **potential victim** &mdash;  we have  one common
topic to talk, to exchange a few  lines of caring and warm feeling, to
shed a sense of humor in face of _danger_ (which I have already argued
that this is not taken as danger at  all), and to feel being part of a
**greater something**. How fascinating!? I have always criticized this
tendency of human  being herded into belief of a  "greater good" which
led to terrible human tragedy, and I have always wished people to have
more  independent thinking.  Yet,  witnessing this  episode proves  to
myself that this is such a built-in character that changing it is like
asking a person to  walk on one leg only when he has  two &larr; it is
entirely  unnatural.  But  is  philosophy  then  a  losing  battle?  I
sincerely wish  not. Yet,  this does highlight  the tragedy  that lies
within, that  human race is  doomed to be  caught by propaganda,  by a
version of a greater good someone preaches... it's like drug, once you
are part  of some group, it's  hard to pull  yourself out of, be  it a
love  relationship, a  team,  a school,  a company,  a  church, or  in
today's scene, a  hurricane. We are eager to  find common denominator,
we are  ready to accept  a denominator, we are  nothing but a  list of
common denominators (this sounds very much like the "who am I, and who
are you" argument I put in [social media][1]).

In the end, I went shopping w/ Noah after his Kumon also. The moment I
walked in and saw shelves of green in produce cooler & buckets of
fruits of all kinds (and there are watermelons the size to feed a
family for a week!), well, there isn't really much reason to feel
nervous then &rarr; I can live off a week of vegetables and
fruits. It's good to your health!

[1]: {filename}/thoughts/social%20media.md
