Title: Hurt feelings
Date: 2017-12-11 21:30
Tags: thoughts
Slug: hurt feelings
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="images/stock-photo-14009067.jpg"/>
</figure>

This is a tough one, really, cause I have been puzzled by this topic
for the last five years, and am continuing being puzzled by it without
a resolution. I don't know how to resolve this. But it is definitely
an **issue** of me that I need to understand, to fix (if it can be),
and to do better without this.

Here is the situation: someone close to you said she was hurt, by you,
maybe a remark, a move, something. And here is the dilemma. On the one
hand, I think no one can control how another person feels, therefore
it is simply not sensible to project the result of the perception
&mdash; you may make the perfect conversation with a golden heart,
there is simply nothing stop it being perceived as a vicious attack
with a dark intention. So, does this make it completly unrelated
between your behavior and others' reactions? In other words, if each
is responsible for his/her own feelings, do I just get a jail-free
card to be a jerk? Certainly, it should not be this way.

But on the other hand, one can't be responsible for others, at least
not as adults. I mean, really, only you can make yourself happy, or
sad, or whatever, no one else can. If not, it becomes a scary thing,
because think of all the **brain wash** remarks I have heard in my
education, in my experience working with Chinese elites, when all they
were crafting was to **lead the customer** &larr; isn't the underline
message of this is that fxxx you, I am **telling ** you what is good
or bad because first of all, you don't know, secondly, I am superior
to you!? This is just, so, wrong!!! But if you speak with a projection
of how the other person is to perceive and to react, doesn't it make
your saying a form of this manipulation? What is the difference? Yes
one can argue that one is with a good intention, and one is
deliberately manipulative. But well, how do you define "good"? Isn't
itself a subjective matter that what is good from your point of view
is, again, a poison for me, because I perceive that way!? Dont you
see, this argument becomes circular.

So what is a right thing to do, to say, to behave, to act, so you
don't hurt others? and should you care, if it is out of your control,
and as being good intention as you want, shouldn't you also avoid
**manipulating** others' perception, even if it is positive (and
helpful)? Well, if you can make a positive impact, wouldn't it by
definition also make you in position to make bad and negative ones,
intentionally and unintentionally!?

I don't know. I feel this logic goes round and round without an
ending, and sometimes I feel I'm paralyzed by it. I feel the sensible
thing, if at all, is to be honest to yourself and to the othe person,
be sincere at the moment of your do and say, speak from your inner
belief, and live on. If others find you positive, great; if negative,
they are not for you and you are not for them. I think this is the
only possible outcome, that people love you, love you; people don't,
don't.

I have always argued that love is not given by the other person. It is
a creation of yourself &mdash; you make yourself feel the love. When
you are in love, any "flaw" becomes a virtue, any cumbersome becomes a
thrill and cuteness; when love is gone &mdash; I don't believe person changes
much, if at all, at least the primary attributes simply don't change
(even if you really want them to, you will be suprised how stubborn
they are) &mdash; it's not the person who has gone bad, it's you who
have changed point of view, the same traits that used to be wonderful
and cute, now is ugly or intolerable.

So along this line, I think at the end of day, you can't be
responsible for others' feeling, you are in control of your own,
whether it is love or anything else. You can hurt others, even if you
are sincere and truthful, because perception is something you don't
have control, and should not try to control. In my opinion,
controlling is a far worse version than hurting someone on purpose
&rarr; the former is lying, the latter is a claimed war so at least
you know what you are dealing with.

I don't know. I feel that I'm promoting open confrontation over
articulated social behavior. I'm not. I am just preferring
truthfulness over any form of disguise, however pretty and beautiful
it may seems for the time being. But then, I was told (by urban
legend), that woman always prefers the disguised version even she
knows it is not true. Huh?

I'm puzzled, and continue being so.
