Title: Imagination is life
Date: 2018-10-02 18:28
Tags: thoughts
Slug: imagination is life
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col l8 m8 s12">
  <img src="{{SITEURL}}/images/casablanca.jpg"/>
</figure>


It has been said that what makes human _superior to_ (or different
from) other species on this planet is that human is the only one that
can imagine; others operate off facts and reality. They do not possess
the skill (or the brain capacity) to imagine a virtual world,
something that is not there, that is _maybe_, that is possible.

This is quite interesting, because it definitely feels so &mdash; we
are often moved and motivated by a futuristic view, which may or may
not pan out to be the case. Yet we get excited about it, work hard
based on such projection, and gets disappointed if it doesn't realize
the way we _want_. So is love, is life.

I was thinking today while limping along &rarr; what makes of life?
what makes one full of life?  why getting old makes one, less lively,
appearing to have less life?  Is it really the beauty, the young skin,
the age? These are rather, factual. There is no denial that elders
don't look _as good_, but that is also by the eyes of the young I
would think. Even when I heard other species don't imagine, I would
have argued that there are two assumptions to this that can be
challenged:

1. how do you know a frog doesn't imagine?
2. you can't impose your definition of _imagination_ upon a frog cause
   s/he (or it) also imagine, but differently from yours.
   
Therefore, using this statement to support the argument that human
thus is better, is rather groundless &larr; this is the same when you
say you are the best looking person in the world (or your mom says so)
because you are using a standard so subjective (and almost absolutely
unique) that no one else can match. As soon as we start to question
the objectivity of it, the saying crumbles down.

So aging, wrinkled skins, lost physiques, can not be used to make the
case of having less life. In the eyes of the 80s, ladies in their 60s
are young (then how funny that human is so obsessed of age difference
when they are actually young! A love between a 20-year-old girl and a
40-year-old guy often gets a rap as if the girl is at loss and the guy
is taking advantage of her). And even their definition of life has
likely changed from the ones I'm thinking of &larr; maybe they view
experience of ups and downs more valuable than a pretty face, a
healthy teeth more than a flush hair.

Then, what about the proximity to death? Surely the closer you are,
the less life you should have. This sounds right. Yet, how to explain
people who are more, lively, in their 80s than someone who is in the
20s!? Stress? Unhappiness? unfairly treated by life? bad luck?... None
of this sounds right.

Here is my theory. **The degree of life is indeed defined by the 
capacity to imagine.** The more of you that is still willing to
imagine, and the less you are views things in its reality and be
annoyed by it (or, like me these days, even upset by it), the more
life you have. Kids are known to be master of imagination, and no one
could deny that kids, all of them, are full of life, energy. Yet, we
will also agree that they are the farthest from reality &larr; they
take no notice of time, no etiquette of any except their instinct, no
sense of order, completion, anything.

When they start to grow up, they are thrown into the reality and
forced to learn, to adapt, and to replace, bit by bit, their
imaginative world with facts. Like the talk on NPR today, human took
astrology because they thought the sky, the wind, the sun, the moon
were talking to him, telling him it is time to plant, to harvest, and
so on (what a self-important view!). Then, came the scientist, whose
so called truth (physics) tells the complete opposite &larr; that you
are nobody in this world, no sun god is overseeing your business, you
better either plant your seed when the time is right, which physics
and satellite are making it pin-point accurate, or your crop will
fail. 

In the pre-weather-forecast version, we feel loved, we revered these
mysterious forces, we feel connected, there is life in everything; in
the factual world, yes we as a specie has advanced and has gained much
more control than sacrificing a pig to pray for rain. Yet, we have
less _life_.

When I'm depressed, I feel the say way. When I got frustrated by some
BS talks and wondered how people can be blind to such contradicting
reasoning and sometimes pure lies, life itself becomes a burning hell.

Then, when love strikes, when a picture of her and a life with her
dangling in front of my mind, life is wonderful. So I think the
argument is indeed correct &mdash; that human is defined by its
capacity to imagine, not by its capacity to take facts. Old people
don't have less life because they are old, but because they know more,
they see more reality, and they put less weight to imagine. Not that
they don't imagine. I think they do; I think we will also do. Just
that when you imagine, you hear louder and louder a voice in your
head, in your heart, telling you this is virtual.

When we gain the capability to distinguish reality from fiction, we
are becoming stronger, wiser, a better person, I believe. Then, like
everything else in life, we pay a price of not believing in a tin
solider friend, or love, or a rosy future. We feel, less life.
