Title: Impeachment
Date: 2021-02-14 10:46
Tags: thoughts
Slug: impeachment
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="images/mitch.jpg"/>
</figure>

I have to say, this is very disappointing. Listening to the calls of these senators to say guilty or not guilty, was very disheartening, when so many say not guilty. This was very puzzling to me. I mean, what would you do when there were somebody pointed a gun at your head? And isn't this capitol hill building like their home? So? We ordinary people were all taught that if someone invaded your private property, you can just fire and shoot. But here, their home was invaded by these mobs, and yet, they played so called politics! I don't understand, really, **what is going on**!?

When I was young, I learned that those so called 世纪审判 by Soviet were all staged. I remember reading them in a book from my college library, and it was quite a shocker to me. I had little life experience then, and nothing of my own opinion on this subject. But over the years I have always believed that such trials won't happen in America. Not that I believe politics are better there. But I have an ultimate faith in the legal system of what America stands for, that a person is assumed innocent until proven guilty, and all accusations are based on evidence, not behind-the-door deal makings. But this, is a slap in the face. I especially couldn't understand Mitch McConnel's speech after he voted not guilty. Why acquitting him then!? And impeaching him doesn't block him from being sued for criminal charges, either, right!? It's irrelevant whether there is a better mean to judge him or punish him, it's your stand that matters here. It's the same that you stand up for a bully at the moment you catch him doing the wrongs &mdash; yes there is police and all that who can punish him better. But hey, you should just stand up to the bully at that time, and say, "stop"! because that's what a decent citizen, human being, should do!

I don't understand this. I think the real damage isn't only this
demonstration of cowardice, but now they are sending a confusing
message to the public. When a person doesn't behave consistently,
everything becomes a crying wolf, and it makes it difficult then to
know when there is a real wolf. I thought this was exactly the
argument by Hayak in his [The Road to Serfdom][2], that a planning
economy distorted the message conveyed by price, thus making people
not trusting the market anymore, which then spills over to all aspects
of society because, once your inner compass was disturbed, you lose a
reference to tell true from false. I think this is exactly what
happened yesterday when he was acquitted.

This is even more difficult for a dad when I'm raising my son and
battling his habit of saying a lie so to get out of a trouble. This is
a human nature, the first defense you use when you are caught. And I
think the entire education is about curbing this nature, so that you
will be honest even when things are not in favor to yourself, you
admit your acts, apologize, and try to fix it. That's what I preached
to Noah, that's what I thought everyone should be doing, that's what
an adult was told to be. These senators are supposed to be an example
**because they represent ideas, and an idea is what America is all
about!** So when they fail, they didn't fail as an individual, but
failed as an idea, and when America doesn't have the idea anymore, how
is it then different from any other country in which people are
suffering because of their government or even their dictators!

This is just, wrong.

I don't know. This is a dark time, really, I think, that is comparable
to what I heard of the 1930s when Hitler was rising. Condolence of 1/6
is like condoning invasion of Poland &mdash; that was a calculated act
that all the Allies thought were a deal. Yet, the world ended up
paying millions of lives for this.  When a mistake like such was made,
no one was going to win.. well, Stalin won, but hey, who is to use his
example to justify a deed, any deed? He was the lowest of the lows,
wasn't he!? These senators thinking they could still retreat w/ their
loots were simply defying history lessons! If you want to be nasty and
benefit yourself!?  well, what Mr.Kim's family has been doing is
actually the correct version &mdash; doing the wrong consistently,
blatantly, publicly, shamelessly, relentlessly, and thoroughly. So was
Hitler. He said what he did, and he never swayed from his idea, no
inconsistency whatsoever. I don't like any of these fanatics. But they
are at least predictable, and thus stoppable.

It's these opportunists, who always put their benefits ahead of any,
are, like an elusive bug &larr; if you can't reproduce them, how do
you then analyze them and come up a fix!?

[1]: https://www.nytimes.com/2021/02/13/us/mcconnell-trump-impeachment-acquittal.html
[2]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Road_to_Serfdom
