Title: Indirection
Date: 2019-12-01 12:25
Tags: thoughts
Slug: indirection
Author: Feng Xia

I wonder whether the Chinese people have been used to reading,
indirectly &mdash; so I was sitting on a cab going to the train
station this morning, and the driver had a music playing w/ a title
"30% of love and 70% of lie" (what a title, btw!) It's rather
unexpected and I asked him to play the song for me, nothing special,
just another those pop song that drivers and ppl who do labor works
like to hear, but the title caught my interest. So for a long time
since last time I took a picture of it and posted in my wechat, w/
some comments of love that whatever you do or think about love, just
don't lie, really, love is such a pure and beautiful thing, is such a
rare occasion in life, to put a lie into it is just, wrong.

But guess what!? Overwhelmingly the responses I received is all about
that inquiry whether I'm now back in China &mdash; at the beginning I
felt rather annoyed by these, that it wasn't my intention to use such
a way to announce my arrival/departure (as a matter of fact, I have
been in Shanghai w/ mom for over 10 days now, caught a terrible cold
and cough all these time, finally feeling better, thus having such a
thought when seeing the song title), and we are about to leave
Shanghai for Beijing as her annual migration route (and to think of
this, this is rather, reversed, don't u think &mdash; that birds
migrate from cold areas to somewhere warm, and hers is the other way
around, well, so her!), so this so called a moment is certainly not an
arrival for me.

But then, it got me thinking &mdash; why? why so? why do they all
catch the meaning as if I'm using this picture and comment to make
such an impression that I'm subtly telling everybody that here I am,
I'm back again!? I think they are just so used to **interpret** a
meaning out of anything, as if every word heard carries a hidden
message, and they do and say and act in the same fashion also &mdash;
words don't carry a face value, and they bury their true intention
deep hoping that they will be discovered/understood!

But why!? Isn't this the root cause of misunderstanding? When I was
writing it I had no intention of any sort of what they thought it was,
and yet, the response was uniform. So even for someone like me who
doesn't share their train of thought, their logic or reasoning,
inevitably, they could only react using the way they know &larr; isn't
this because the society they live in is full of such things!?  I have
discussed this much in [euphemism][1], but my conclusion is the same
after two years, that such communication pattern is not only
pointless, but is outwright harmful &mdash; we are already having too
much trouble making oneself understood, understanding others, being
able to reach an agreement w/ both parties knowing exactly what the
deal is, and here, everyone, out of their life habit, is only able to
read a line and respond by finding the **indirect meaning** of a line
&larr; I do give them credit by associating this w/ me being now in
China and giving me a warm greeting.

But honestly, my dear friends, that is not my point. I'm nobody,
unimportant, needing no attention, but wanting to share something I
found funny, some thoughts that gave me an urge to write, and that's
all it is &mdash; life is hard, don't make it more complex than it
needs to be. Let's all try to be frank, straightforward, simple,
direct, speaking things you truly feel, preaching things you truly
believe, giving things you truly wish to, and appreciating things you
truly love.

Yes, love, the one thing that is full of lies in life, can at least be
kept in purity in our mind, in our heart. No matter how messy the life
has made mine or yours, try, not to lie. Shall we?

[1]: {filename}/thoughts/euphemism.md

