Title: Internet
Date: 2019-09-01 17:47
Tags: thoughts
Slug: internet
Author: Feng Xia
Modified: 2019-09-04 08:20

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="/images/anime%20guitar%20and%20girl.jpg"/>
</figure>


I started this article a few days, but didn't finish it. A few mixed
thoughts have been lingering around my mind for quite some. But they
are rather elusive &mdash; they come and go, and on the moment when I
felt them, I was always busy with something else. Then by the time I
sat down to write, I couldn't think of them anymore. So let me try
them again.


This is a topic I have long been writing, that I think the internet is
in trouble.

What's the value of the Internet these days? I used to think, and I
think most people will take it as the No. 1 value of the Internet, is
that it has made information (**not knowledge, and leave alone truth,
fact, reality, those kind of words**) readily available at your finger
tip. But then, we do have to ask, what is the use of information? The
answer will be, it depends &mdash; certainly an information of the
a sale going on in a McDonald's next door will not help you in any way
when your son is sick and you need to figure out how to get him to a
Doctor. I mean, measured by a particular moment, the value of
information is depending on the _prioritized need at that moment_
&mdash; you might still find the sale useful cause you also think of
your lunch or a snack for your son on the way to the
hospital. However, it is less useful because seeing a Doctor has
higher priority.

It's on this usefulness of information that people would think of the
Internet as a tool. But I think there are two issues here.

First, assuming that the information is 100% _accurate_ and _whole_ &mdash;
meaning it is true to the extent anyone on this earth can possibly
perceive to include, and what is included is as correct as anyone on
this earth can possibly validate. Even so, the degree of the
usefulness varies tremendously from case to case. Let me try to rank
the _causes_ of such variation:

1. How the question is formulated. I'm a firm believer of garbage in,
   garbage out. I often say that Google may have everything you will
   ever want to know. How much yo*u are getting out it is solely
   depending on your question &rarr; the more pinpointed your question
   is, the more likely you will find search results _helpful_ to
   answer your question.
   
2. How well is the information relating to your question. An easy
   example will be those double-meaning words &mdash; the speaker may
   not even be aware of its ambiguity while the question is
   asked. Then, how could the Internet respond well?
   
3. How well can the receiver use the feedbacks. This is completely a
   personal trait, and is what makes one a good/bad
   engineer/student/person, and so on.
   
It's the point #2 that I want to elaborate further, and is what I mean
by the degradation of the Internet's value. Reading over the articles
circulating in the friendship circle has long taught us that it will
be a nonsense to believe everything the Internet presents to us. One
can argue that **objetive info** such as a selling price of a product
you searched from Google or Amazon is reliable, while a personal
relationship of a movie star with whom and whom is nothing but
gossips. But, **how do you know?** In other words, what makes that
price info not a gossip (if we let these words, "info" and "gossip",
bear the distinction of a "accurate/truthful info"
vs. "untruthful/inaccurate info")?

By a sheer logic, I would not think there is such a measure/criteria
at all one can utilize to identify one from another (well, one could
also argue that each person is himself the measure, which is also true
in a day-to-day sense), because there is nothing objective about the
target (these info) and the act (to distinguish them). Everything in
this discussion is purely, subjective. And once we agree that they are
in the subjective sphere, all bets are off &mdash; I can say whatever
I want, and you can hear whatever you like &mdash; it's a fair game
for all, and **unfair** for all, too.

Then, what's the value of the Internet anymore than other information
channels we have &mdash; your eyes, ears, newspapers, TVs, pamphlets,
bibles or any other book, lecture by your professor or by your
parents, a tale, a piece of _history_ &mdash; Internet is just another
channel, grantedly much more efficient, and also much more **free**
because it does not obey geo boundary, thus is transcending not only
geo bounds, but social bounds, custom bounds, ideological bounds
&rarr; and why so!? how so!? Why can't, say, an internationally
distributed newspaper, achieve the same effect (let's leave out
censorship out to simplify the discussion)? One difference I can think
of is that those medias are produced by a single entity, the owner
company of that media, while whatever is circulating on the Internet
is taken to be generated by an unknown entity, a group of unknown
entities. But apparently, these anonymous authors didn't make the
material any more credible than those known authors. As a matter of
fact, the contrary is becoming true, that people are more and more
believing those **official channels** (and the worst example is to
quote government releases as the ultimate source of truth) more than a
piece you pick up on the Internet. So, the democracy feature of the
Internet's information flow is actually working against itself by
making it less and less valuable as an information source!

Efficiency. Yes, the Internet still holds this edge due to its
underline technology, which, by [my own argument][1], meets one of the
three criteria to determine whether technology is an improvement over
the old ways of doing things. But the efficiency itself is neutral
&larr; it accelerate the distribution of good and bad in an equally
fashion, with the equal power, and by nature will make no distinction
whatsoever, and even if it can do such thing, we don't want it to,
either &mdash; because the fundamental question isn't whether it can
or can not, but by what measure it makes such judgement!? Isn't this
nature of assisting both the _good_ and _bad_ causing the
[confusion][2] what we are experiencing in the social medias? Yes, but
only part of it. Here is another issue.

If you have used ebay and has followed its growth, you would see the
pattern that small players get **crowded out of this space** gradually
and surely because they simply do not have the same level of resources
to play against big players. On the Internet, if its business is a
channel to propogate bits, its authors would eventually follow this
pattern to concentrate onto a few (and they are still measured in
millions at least) power houses &mdash; it's a shout game, and whoever
owns the largest microphone and the biggest antenna, win. Receivers
will be drowned in this game by the flood of information his/her brain
needs to process before that **subjective measure** can make a choice
&larr; if we take the brain capacity as finite (`capacity/daily = number of
bits processed by secons * waking hours * 3600`), then the producer
can surely saturate this capacity, thus making it useless, meaning it
will either stop to function totally, or seeing the **error** rate
shoot up. We are already witness this phenomenon in the Facebook
debate. I believe this is also how propaganda works in general. Like a
Truman's world, **how can you tell it's constructed when your info
inputs are all constructed**!? and to this extent, **does it matter
whether you live in a matrix**?

This ia very pessimistic view. This pattern isn't new, and is being
played out again and again and again. I start to wonder whether there
is a name for such pattern, and what its solution is in a social
context? If looking up how people discussed the effect of, newspaper,
or the radio, and the TV, I'm sure I'll find these exact same
arguments, just swapping out the words to Internet, viola, don't they
sound familiar!?

So I take those as an example, it does give us a peace of mind &mdash;
that the human society didn't collapse, war was not caused by having
radio or TV, marriage didn't become happier or unhappier, life in
general did become more diverse and dimensional, more entertaining,
and these stimulation translated to more creative mind (in both good
and bad), which, I still believe, is the ultimate good thing &rarr; so
far, the only thing limitless is the outcome of human mind. What if it
comes up something, good!?

Peace.

[1]: {filename}/thoughts/reflection%20on%20technology.md
[2]: {filename}/thoughts/social%20media.md
 
