Title: Social invalids, birds
Date: 2022-09-26 09:20
Tags: thoughts
Slug: social invalids
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="images/DSC_5576.JPG"/>
</figure>

Morning walk w/ Laifu, and found another small green bird lying on the
sidewalk, the same kind I found the night  before. I couldn't tell
whether it is the same one. At a moment I felt this could be the same
family that one was lost going out and never returned, then the other
flew out here to look for it, then bumped into this glass building and
suffered the same fate... I felt sad. Picking it up and brought it to
the same spot where I left the other one. The one I left was gone,
making wonder whether the cats got the bird, or they picked it up and
brought it back to the sidewalk where I saw it again? Don't know. It's
a warm feeling, however, seeing there are a lot of dry foods for the
cats, and a few containers of different kinds lying around, and a box
of water... some kind person is taking care of these cats. I don't
know where they are hiding. Wherever it may be, let it be safe, warm,
dry, and cats could live there without hardship.

Saw the same guy lingering around the building under the bus stop
hood. I don't know what is of him. He is not a valid anymore. Morning
temperature is down to the 50s now. He doesn't seem to mind. The lady
I ran into the other night who said this same person was blocking her
from coming into the building and got scared. She was really shaky. I
felt bad for her, too, and I felt bad for this invalid. Doesn't he
have a family? or friends? Police was called the other night by the
lady, so I would have thought he was taken away and put somewhere by
the police. Quite a surprise then seeing him again this morning at the
same spot as if he never left. Maybe police doesn't know what to do
with him, either. What do we do with such invalids then? I mean, as a
society, there is bound to have someone like this, either they lost
mind voluntarily or accidentally, they become the person they are now,
and their body is still going while their mind is completely
gone. What should they be? Makes me think of the experience with Dad
when I first took him to Taikang, also. It was my first time being
with all the dementia patients, men and women, some easy to tell while
some are superficially as normal as you and I. I didn't what to do w/
them, either, and many turned out to be just another living being,
though not as understandable as so called _normal_ people. But living
up this age it is challenging for me too to call a _normal_ person
_normal_ just because s/he is not yet as an invalid. There are plenty
of walking zombies whose mind is not anywhere more healthier or
admirable than these invalids. But no one picks them out. If human
difference is really a difference of opinion, then wouldn't it be
reasonable to take the invalid as just another kind who might be
living in a parallel universe now of which we know nothing about?

I don't know. I feel bad for this guy. He is lost apparently, lost in
this world. Worst of all, he is doomed to be lonely. No one is willing
to talk to him, getting close to him, and even being nice to him. He
is a social outcast in the same sense that some back in the Victorian
age committed a shameful sin. We know those so called sins come and
go, each age following a different set of standard to judge. Yet, for
these invalids, they are just forever gone, crossed out already, and
the world is only waiting for him to perish. Sigh.

The bird lost its way in the glass jungle, and this person lost his
way in this human world. Different being, same fate. Sad.
