Title: Is it fate?
Date: 2019-11-16 08:25
Tags: thoughts
Slug: is it fate
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col l8 m8 s12">
  <img src="images/cat%20sleeping.jpg"/>
</figure>


Upcoming trip in six days now. For some reason I'm feeling anxious of
this trip since a few weeks ago &mdash; a feeling of both excitement
and worry. Unlike the 2016 trip to 深圳, before which I had a
feeling before the trip that "something is going to happen", and I
meant something that is _big_, and it did, I met her. This time the
feeling is more of an uncertainty because I don't know what is going
to happen, not much of self-confidence that "yes I will be ok", but
that if something happens, I don't know how I will come through, maybe
good, maybe bad.

Had a talk w/ Li Jian over Friday's lunch, about fate. Of course we
were just joking about whether there is such that we meant to see each
other at lunch time to have lunch, then I joked that I must not the
one in his pre-life to put a cover over his body when he was lying on
a beach &mdash; a derivative of the 鸡汤 story that a girl was found
on the beach, naked, the first man walked by and didn't do anything,
the second man did something, don't remember what it is now, then came
along the third guy who went over and put his coat over her body
&mdash; then after cycles of rebirth, the girl became the third guy's
wife in this life, to repay his kindness on the beach.

Familiar story line. Always this gets to the moral of the story that
it is fate/destiny for the two people to be together in marriage
&mdash; inevitable, meant to be, w/ a noble reason behind it, always.

But then, it just occurred to me, this logic plays in this direction,
but what about the **other point of view** &mdash; the guy in this
case, is he ready to receive such arrangement!? We all know too well
that in love there isn't a promise that if I love you, you will
definitely love me back. Well well, then in this cycle of repayment of
love/kindness/whatever, who says the guy is ready, or even happy, to
receive the girl's give-back!? Nobody! 

As a matter of fact, I can even argue that the not-to-receive is more
likely to occur than the expected fateful arrangement. Think about
it. If the guy is such a kind person, he must have done quite a few
good deeds in that life cycle, which then means that all of them will
seek a route to repay his kindness, do they spread out in such a way
so that only one occurs in his life cycles afterwards? but even so,
what if he continues to be a good person so to generate more good
deeds? This certainly will become a compound math, which after a few
cycles/generations, will become a quite large number!!

So when the girl shows up in his life, ready to be his wife, there is
likely a queue lining up w/ similar cases, thus she has to wait for
her turn, which God knows how long the queue is, what if her life runs
out before her turn is up? does she lose her spot in the line if she
dies and tries again in the next life cycle? That sounds pretty,
depressing. Let's assume that she saves her spot, there still isn't
any guarantee that the guy will _love_ her, or even _like_ her, well,
of course we can argue that this entire process is all about her
paying the deeds, not him giving her anything, thus it doesn't matter
how bumpy the road of her giving-back is, actually, the bumpier, the
better because, like the trip to the West, all challenges turn into
proof of her determination, thus a hallmark of the **fateful**!

Fascinating, isn't it!? But now I can see a flaw in all these, and
feminist will love what I discovered &mdash; the fateful story was
created to beautify love, making it a quite touching story because the
relationship you two forms extends way beyond this life. However, by
having the woman lying on the beach, it has put woman in the passive
position for the rest of her rebirth cycles &rarr; she has to wait in
the guy's pay-me-back queue, take chance of him favouring her so to
give her a change, and jump through hoops and hurdles in between to
demonstrate her will and purity of intention &mdash; all these, are
**unfairly** put upon the woman, because she received an act of
kindness!! 

Further, the moral of such story implies that life becomes an
accounting book of good deeds and bad deeds, that you will have to
settle/balance somehow, in some generation, sooner or later. In the
western world, you settle w/ God at your death, say, donate all your
properties to church so to be saved (book is reset to 0). Here in this
oriental version, you setting w/ that _kind_ person by becoming his
wife or something, but this is shakier than setting w/ God because, in
theory, there is only one God, so the identity is clear, and logic
behind this God is quite clear, too, like written in a book which
people _study_ and _teach_ and _learn_, but settling w/ some guy/girl
which you have no memory whatsoever, only a fuzzy feeling that maybe
you know him/her!? Man, that doesn't sound a sure thing at all!!! But,
**isn't fate supposed to be, well, sure!?**

So by making up a story like such to describe the effect of fate, it
completely miss the point by making the effect rather uncertain, thus
defeating its own preach. Maybe I'm overthinking again, but this
mental exercise is quite, amusing. I wonder whether many other so
called legends should be scrutinized in such a way as well, just to
see whether it has an inconsistent logic that breaks itself. That will
be fun actually.

Anyway. So much for the fate. At least, I think you shouldn't use that
lying-on-beach story anymore, because it is quite wrong. But me
meeting her back then, yes, it is fateful, because I can't ever
forget, however many lives I will be through, live, and die.
