Title: Late night, city
Date: 2019-12-22 23:51
Tags: love
Slug: late night city
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="images/square%20dance.jpg"/>
</figure>

When was the last time I was sitting by a window watching a city going
to sleep? Was it 2012 when I took Noah to Japan for the first time,
that I was sitting there, watching the city sleep, watching the city
wake up? Then, I was writing emails to Noah's mom, hoping the words
will get to her. But then, they never get responses, so the story
ended, w/ a sad ending, as expected.

Now, I'm sitting at a window again, watching the city lights going out
here and there, less noise on the street, less cars going by, and
families of the building next become dark as ppl are also turning off
lights at home to go to sleep &mdash; so here I am, ready to fly again
tomorrow, but sitting here, watching, writing, thinking. I tried to
feel you these days, but honestly, after spending time in your city, I
started to feel, less now of the memories &mdash; I still wish you
could be next to me, someday, but I can't feel what is like anymore,
just a thought, less emotional now, at least for now, it is so.

Sitting at a square nearby in the evening and watched people square
dance. Fascinating. Especially there was this woman, can't see her
face, all dressed up, in a really elegant way, just standing there,
still, and her (I guess) boyfriend who has a beer belly, was leading a
group of enthusiasts, dance to a loud tune. Can't really say he dances
well; but she looks quite striking from behind, especially in the
middle of these loudness, dim lights, and happy hours.

There was a large circle, probably 50 people or even more, some
dressed in what I would guess 彝族 costumes, moving in one direction
w/ rhythmic kicks, beats, and some singings. Watching them going by as
if they were gathering around a bonfire at their village, I couldn't
help feeling touched by the rough spirits they possessed, however
unpolished it may be, it was down to earth, plain, and
touching. Looking at their faces and attires, I can't tell what they
do during day, or whether they are really  彝族, or they were just
having a good time. Was it a dating theme, that they were checking
each other out? Or just a chance to grab a stranger's hands, or being
nudged to each other w/o feeling embarrassed or annoyed? was it, their
form of a, hug? Maybe so, maybe so. Whatever it is, it is a human
need, that everyone wants to feel close to someone, wants to jump and
kick and sweat, wants to sing and dance, wants to beat to a beat,
wants to feel, real, alive &mdash; there it goes, a middle age guy was
just invited by his friend to join the dance circle, immediately he
was mixing into the same move like everybody else! How interesting!
Apparently he is not new to this, but then, when he was just standing
next to me, I would never tell!

So I watched, watched, not that the music was pleasing, but there were
people in it, and like a place, people, give it, a soul.

Went back to the boutique coffee shop tonight after a full dinner,
feeling I wanted to pay it another visit before leaving town
tomorrow. However, it's was rather a disappointing experience &mdash;
so there were these two women ahead of me, who got their fancy coffee
also, and they started doing some kind of astrology-kind show while I
was waiting for mine &mdash; one apparently was a main speaker, whose
topic of the night was number 7, and she just started talking talking,
"people whose number 7 is detail oriented, curious, and lucky....." I
turned around to check her out, since she was quite fluent, I thought
she might be reading something, but no, she was just talking to her
phone! So it got me quite annoyed, that her head actually has this
kind of stuff coming out naturally.... and the worst part, is the
other woman smoked while I was served my coffee, so not only I dont
like smoke, but that it masked my coffee taste.. sigh. I wanted to say
something to them, but then, well, I'd better be a stranger, and let
them do what they do, cause I really don't want to ask further their
topic, or their interests in coming to this shop &mdash; if you were
here for coffee, I'm sure you didn't appreciate the air that used to
be mixed w/ coffee bean smell and chocolate, but now, there was
nothing but a cigarette smell. What a bad idea!

Walked to the bookstore I found. Quite a nice place. Yes there were
also young girls and guys taking photos (girls are taking poses, while
one guy is shining lights using his phone, and another w/ a big ass
lens and camera). Pretty bogus, isn't it!? It's ok. They need this
setting, so to prove how cool they are, how cultural they are &mdash;
however one doesn't like read books at all, books printed on paper,
sitting on shelves, still spell out a status no other shining goodies
can compete &mdash; same as the rudimentary music the square dances
had, books, as plain as they are, touches a person, a mysterious
power, isn't it?

I don't know you will ever be here, in this store, or taking that
coffee. I'm sure you have seen much better ones. But it's ok. These
are just places, moments, thoughts, that make me think of you, even
though you were not here &mdash; when I felt sad, felt moved, felt
happy, felt forgotten, felt alone, I always wished, you would know.

