Title: Logic
Date: 2017-12-19 8:50
Tags: thoughts
Slug: logic
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col l5 m5 s12">
  <img src="images/logic.png"/>
</figure>


It amazes me, really, that how many people are conflicting themselves
in term of logic in their arguments. Or I should say, everyone,
including myself, are constantly in a state of contradicting of
ourselves when it comes to explain an opinion or in a discussion to
win a debate. How so?

So the big news of China's financial world is that Baidu is opening up
some kind of online version of a traditional bank, and everybody
thinks it is going to rock the money industry because now it has
officially married the crown jewel of this era &mdash; computer
technology. Of course, the marriage carries an army of buzz word
ornaments &mdash; AI, big data... the scenario is that by collecting
consumer data and data crunching, agent shall be able to **improve
efficiency** dramatically in deciding whether one should get a loan
approval or not, which, if realized as what they say, is certainly a
huge advantage over the status quo &mdash; Chinese state-owned banks
are notorious in treating their customers badly by being low efficient
and arrogant. From my own experience, both as an employee and as a
customer, the understanding of what data is and what one can do with
it is just not there. Yes they collect a huge amount of private data,
but at the mean time these data are dis-organized, arbitrarily
designed and decided &mdash; guilty as charged, I was one of those who
actually designed application form that our loan customer has to fill
out for dollar amount up to millions (!!), while I had literally zero
experimental proof of any of those data points could be effective, or
even correlate in one way or another!? Even worse, the VP of the bank
had strong opinion of his own so the form also incorporated many of
his _wishes_ while his only defense is that _it has been used in
banking industry for years_ or that _he had good experience with it_
&mdash; all subjective, all _what I say against yours, and I win
because I'm the boss_, kind of deal &rarr; so that's how the wheels
went. I'm super-surprised how well these banks are doing according to
their official paper, while its internal is such a mess. Oh well.

Back to the topic. Universally everybody thought Baidu stepping into
the financial world is a big news, even as yet another example that
these tech companies &mdash; Alibaba, Tencent, are transforming
themselves into something closer to money. Why? Because the core of
the argument is that by looking at the same type of entity in the US
market, who has about 10% of all financial transaction volume, China
has only 0.2% currently &rarr; therefore, we are looking at 50x growth
just to _catch up_.

**But wait!!! This is what bothers me now**. 

# You can't have both True

First of all, where is the voice of familiar _Chinese charateristics_
now!? Don't people always think that their market is so unique (from
the rest of world) that it expects, deserves, a special treatment, a
Chinese version!?  How come all of sudden what US market is now a
benchmark? This isn't an isolated case. Taking any marketing PPT when
the first couple pages talks about an industry, a business model,
there is always the logic that whatever the 先进国家 has (or had), it
represents a self-proven projection of what the topic (and PPT
author's view) will have. Don't you see!? This is completly
contradicting to what they will **inevitably** derive just a few pages
later, now the old cliché that "oh btw, China is different that you
just don't understand it as well as I do, and there is a new,
modified, custom-made version, just for China, and look how smart I
am, how business savvy I am, and how接地气 I am". Give me a fxxx
break!!! This is completly BS, and the frustration I have is that
s/he doesn't realize how BS s/he is being!  What I'm hearing are two
assumptions as the basis of their logic:

1. I have an apple, and you have an orange.
2. Because orange grows 10 lb/piece, my apple will grow to 10 lb/piece, too.

Excuse me!? You can have one of these two points, but not both.

# You can't make projection withiout distinction

Secondly, if the business (model) are indeed the same in core &mdash;
online or not is just a form, the core of banking, the logic of
banking &mdash; I'm talking about transactional logics and details, do
your due dilligence &mdash; they should still be viewed in at least
two segments &mdash; **a fixed-value segment and a variable-value
segment**. 

1. **Fixed-value segment**: covers attributes and transactions that
are universally true and can be confidently applied in parallel, for
example, how interest rate is calculated, how accounting books are
made, how tax is done... really, people, please stop being creative in
this segment, read the rules written by authority and educate yourself
to be a domain expert on these. These are blank & white, and should be
understood like `2*2=4` &mdash; everybody works on the same syntax and
rule.

2. **Variable-value segment**: covers these local opinions and customs
   that are society driven, psychology driven, and human-need
   driven. So the homework here is to gain an insight of these
   factors, and without me even says, these topics are **hard**!!
   I wouldn't even dare to claim there is science behind them. There
   are studies and professors, but really, human business is just
   messy. It's difficult to profile a person, let alone to predict a
   behavior. There are patterns when samples are large, but individual
   is a wildcard.
   
So what I'm trying to derive from this? is that only the fixed values
are transportable and can be used in a projection. The variable
segment requires a delibrate analysis with a **clearly defined point
of view** (yes, you are required to take a stand so all the analysis
has a foundation. Otherwise, it's meaningless.) and framework so to
support your opinion, and like any subjevtive POV it's very much up
for debate and challenge (but at least it is clear to all that it is a
subjective POV, not an objective fact, and that is a core
difference). But omitting it as if it is a universal knowledge without
a need of explanation is just a coward action showing that you don't
understand it either, and that defeats the whole logic of the my apple
will grow to 10 lb/piece just because their apple grows to that big,
too. **No!!** If your division of fixed vs. variable is 20%-80%, I
would only accept that there is 20% of a chance your apple will grow
to their size, certainly not 100%. Period. You see, this is how logic
should be, be logical, and be consistent.

# Sigh

Too many times now, in too many occasions, and by too many dressed-up
experts and talk shows, the two contradicting views are being
presented and mingled to support a single argument, which
fundamentally is saying:

> "Look, I flip a coin and both faces are up!"

This line is indeed impressive (as its speaker is hoping to sound). As
a matter of fact, it must be impressive, it has to be impressive,
because this is absolutely magical! It is absolutely magical because,
it can not logically happen. That's all.
