Title: Love, life
Date: 2017-12-01 11:30
Tags: thoughts
Slug: love life
Author: Feng Xia

<figure>
  <img class="col l6 m6 s12"
       src="/images/snoopy.png">
</figure>

I'm in the middle of this mid-life crisis, I guess, which prompted me
to think a lot about why I am feeling this, whether this is happening
for a reason, that it is just unique to me, or to everyone in a way,
just different content? If it's the latter, then it's just like a
phase in growing up, that sooner or later one will experience it
&rarr; it's the process driven by nature, not by my mind, which I
always fear is going crazy, sometimes. I mean, being unique is what
everybody wants, but being unique is also what gives you anxiety
&mdash; you want to be part of a social team (so you don't feel left
out), but you also want to be standing out, uniquely you, being taken
that way, that you are someone **special**. How conflicting! This is
like everything else in life, that two sides of a coin are fighting
but must co-exist, all the time, and inside one body, one brain, one
person! I used to think oxymoron is an exceptional mind game or word
game that's fun to play with, as a joke.  But nowadays, I think it is
not even funny; it is the normal. Scary.

So, I was thinking about love, why two ppl fall in love with each
other, why the feeling of love can fade, say, in marriage, and too
often than we want it to, it not only fades, but flips to become an
agony, an annoyance, a piece of you that upsets you, makes you mad,
frustrated, even hatred. This can't be just a myth, a cliche that
marriage is the doom of love, then everybody, young and old repeat
generation after generation, partially driven by the mating urge, but
in many many many ways by a reflection of so called **ideal self &
life** you have in mind. When young I used to think breaking up was
due to a misunderstanding of your partner, "can't you see how much I
love you!? can't you see how good I am!? can't you see what you are
missing out (by not being with me)!?...." If one ever take a step back
to look at these comments, the only conclusion to draw is, man, this
is one **self-centered** man/woman! and who wants to be around someone
like that!? I think they did the right thing by leaving me. Really, I
would have made the same decision, because the person who thought that
way is just not lovable, at all.

But then, I start to ask, why I had thought that way? Was that because
of the age, that all young people are self-centered (and of course,
the younger you are, the more it is, just think of Noah, who was SUPER
self-centered when he was like 3-month, to like a 3-4 year. Man, he
couldn't care less of what the world is doing. He wanted his milk
bottle, now! So it is a phase thing!? so can one _grow out of it_?
When? in his 80s? or 40s, like what I'm going through as I'm typing
these?), or it was happening for a reason? I mean, why one feels
self-important that way!? I think there is much **self-confidence**
involved, that one truly think s/he is lovable, priceless, has much to
give to the other party, and has the strength to bring an image of
life and self in reality. Sometimes when I sit by Starbucks watching
young people coming in and out, I can't help feeling that besides the
nature's calls, there is a fundamental logic that one likes (and
likely to fall in love with) these beautiful young people, and here is
how it goes.

# phase 1

<figure>
  <img class="col s12"
       src="/images/love%20life%20phase%201.png">
  <figcaption>Love life, phase 1</figcaption>
</figure>

When you are young, how can you not be **lovable**!? Just look at the
life around you. Yourself is healthy, having an endless
potential. Your parents are young enough and likely to contribute to
your life rathe than being a responsibility. You have an army friends
who share a very similar life (& styles) like you. You all have
similar worries and happinesses. You have quite a few suitors who
adore you, so you feel loved, needed, special (even though you may not
like them back).

This is a version of life's image everyone would like to have, isn't
it!? The only drawback one says about this is that young people may be
poor. But, if you are not in the poor category, then life is
literally, wonderful!

So how can I not love someone like you!? You have everything to be loved!

# phase 2

Then, there is phase 2. A bit older now, maybe married, maybe dating,
5-10 years into a career of some sort, have formed a few **deeper**
understanding of the job, of boss and co-worker, of people and life in
general, hurt a few times by someone, hopefully not fatal and mentally
fatal, have moments of doubts and downs ofteners than before.

The killer problem starts to show &mdash; if married, there maybe a
kid, oh man, parenting is just, HARD! or a few marriage/dating
glitches now and then, not quite sure the one you love or the life is
coming up, parents are aging and you start to see some effect of it,
grandparents are aging, too. And the worst thing is, friends start to
drive in different pace now, some getting ahead, some lingering (as
you always feel you are the one), some falling behind (but you feel
you are not that much better than them), some already has kid in 3rd
grade, while others are dating to get married, and you are just
somewhere in between, of all these.

The down spiral, sigh.

<figure>
  <img class="col s12"
       src="/images/love%20life%20phase%202.png">
  <figcaption>Love life, phase 1</figcaption>
</figure>

# sad, sad, sad

I think you get the idea. Life is becoming more and more of things you
need to take care of &mdash; parent, grandparent, kids, job, partner,
frustration of yourself, of seeing some of your friends/peers are
getting ahead, a few _what-ifs_ one start to ponder, an urge to find a
shortcut so to get back the _loss_, and on and on and on.

This is sad. And if you think of it and ask yourself, would you love
someone like this? If you are being with this person, your sphere of
problems and responsbilities have just expanded. So for a love between
adults, it is a serious **commitment** to take on these, to make
his/her problem, mine. Let's face it, the reality is, these challenges
don't go away when you say "I love you".  They persist, until you find
a way to handle it &rarr; this is the same that saying those buzz
words are easy and fun and blood-pumping, making a version of that
buzz word reality, however minute and preliminary that version is, is
hard.

# thoughts

So, I'm not crazy after all. The feeling of struggle is not only real,
but logical. The task to tackle these things in life just can't be an
easy decision. It's only rational to feel the gravity of it and be
fearful of how much work it is going to take.

Those who think these are easy, just like the ones I always criticize
on those Chinese tech shows, or someone how
think [technology is mature][1], the truth is, they **want someone
else to solve these for him/her**, because they certainly won't.

[1]: {filename}/thoughts/tech%20maturity.md
