Title: Mars
Date: 2019-05-12 21:46
Tags: thoughts
Slug: mars
Author: Feng Xia

<video width="100%" height="100%" controls="controls">
  <source src="images/bird%20fly.mp4 "
          type="video/mp4" />
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
  /* instead of the last line you could also add the flash player*/
</video>


Noah and I had a curious conversation. While pulling off the highway
towards the Reader's Corner, I asked him to look over the powerball
sign to see how much it is now &mdash; 250 millions. That's a lot of
money. So I teased him again about my condo in Tokyo (or really,
anywhere will be just fine), and said that if he owns the Japan
Airline, as he is thinking, then he must be having more money than
this powerball even.

So we started to talk about moving to Mars, that once the Earth
becomes too crowded, maybe he should get me a condo on Mars, or the
"other side of the Moon", as he put it. 

But then, it suddenly occurred to me &mdash; when we talk about
migration to Mars, there is always an implication that you must be
super rich in order to be the first few that can enjoy such
privilege. Isn't it so when we hear on the news that who and who
reserved a seat going to Mars, and this person is always the super
successful tycoon and we all think that "of course! For him/her, that
ticket is just a pocket change." Though to us, that's always a lot of
money. 

However, here is a flaw in this logic. If we look at history, who went
to those remote, distant place away from home? who went to the newly
discovered the new world? Australia, criminals, unwanted; the America,
religiously suppressed group; 新疆, Tibet, the West, even
Canada, what pops to your mind is not a pleasure trip and glamorous
life, but a super high risk, though mixed with excitements and
possibilities, but certainly no one expects to find a pleasant,
comfortable life that will beat what you get at home!! 

So if we listen to these historical examples, one must then relate
that when Mars is finally settled by human, the first couple batches
will be in a barren place and likely just die, out of thirst,
starvation, or God knows what. What we are thinking of going to Mars
as those riches are going, is basing on an assumption that **once we
can settle on it, the technology is so advanced that the land zone
will be not only super comfy, but so much cooler than anything you
will find on Earth** &larr; what we are hoping is that the place is
the summit of the entire human race, it is constructed with the best
know-how the entire world can pull together, thus must be the ultimate
to experience.

Well, it's ultimate experience alright. But because we will be so new
to the environment, to this new world, even the best of we get may be
insufficient to deal with the challenges, or be the entire opposite
strategy that will work, or somewhere in between. Never try, never
know. But being onboard as pioneer is not what we associate with a
rich's life style. More likely, it's like visiting Japan, or China, or
India, by the missionaries by ships back in the 18th century &mdash;
it's exotic, but is a pretty terrible assignment for those who went.

So, if we won the powerball, I'll stick to my wish of a condo in
Tokyo, or Cambodia, or Singapore. Mars, or the Moon, or anywhere there
isn't much human yet, thank you, but no.
