Title: Mask, and random clips
Date: 2019-12-21 20:25
Tags: thoughts
Slug: mask
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="images/dongfangshudian.jpg"/>
</figure>

I wonder, whether human feels deep inside an urge, to hide behind a
mask, some sort of _shield_, so to feel, safe, feel privileged among
peers, feel self-confident?

If you notice, the premium spot of any coffee shop, is always the big
glass window facing outside, while you can sip your coffee, or just
sit there idling, while people watching, and while, maybe, be watched
by people going by. Why so? Why do we want to hide behind a glass
shield? From the inside, it feels that you are outside this world
looking in; but standing outside, don't you also become a fish in a
tank, quite pathetic in a box feeling good about yourself? I don't
know, but I find it to be very much true, to myself, as well as to
many many others &larr; we like to sit by the window, to watch people,
and to be watched, and the drink, the price tag, the environment, all
become something standing behind me, so to make me feel, above the
ones outside &mdash; and even so, that me having the luxury to sit
down, to relax, to kill time, while people walking by, well, are,
walking, are _occupied_ physically, so that adds another layer of
icing on the peer victory, doesn't it!?

How interesting! Then, along this line, all of sudden you start to
find a lot of masks. Another common one besides glass window:
**sunglass** &mdash; wearing sunglass is always more than functional
&mdash; you feel, somehow, safe, behind these shades, even though they
hide nothing but some eyes, while 99% of your body is exposed, but you
think you are different, invisible &mdash; in a sense, the eyes don't
have direct contact, thus others can't just peek into your soul, but
well, how many people really read others' eyes? or even pay attention
to!? **Then, if you wear sunglass inside a Starbucks, that's like double
shields, isn't it? Bonus!**


Walked quite a bit after dinner along a, river? creek?, which led me
all the way to this fancy shopping mall called Kunming Square. I got
tired walking after a few stores, then just leaning aginst rail on the
2nd floor, and watching people for a while. To my disppointement,
girls in this city aren't really stylish, nor attractive &mdash; they
do have a style, sort of Japanese, pretty cute, but they lack, the
move, which I can't describe what it is &mdash; they wear a cute
clothes, but don't feel comfortable in it, just a feeling. You, on the
other hand, has a style, that is very, cool... well, everything about
you is cool anyway ~~

Sitting in MUJI to take a breath, I started to look at people
wondering the store &mdash; have you done that before? If not, I
strongly encourage you try it next time, just watch, watch them scan
shelves, as if deep in thoughts. What is it, I wonder!? I think
everyone, myself included, is just looking for something in the store
that is, affordable, catching the eyes (secondary, really), so s/he
is convincing him/her-self that "Yes we can buy this one, It's cute,
and reasonably priced.... " But honestly, I don't feel anything there
is reasonably priced, not even the Uniqlo across the isle! &larr;
sadly, I can't even affort Uniqlo these days anymore.. but then, why
do people shop so to convince themselves in this way!? Just about 90%
of the stuff in the store I have no clue what they should be &mdash; I
mean, I know what they do, but why are they priced as such? Style
itself doesn't justify, in most cases &rarr; it justifies a shirt or a
dress, but it doesn't, simply doesn't, justify a dust pan, or a
storage box!! I'm sorry, I'm not getting it... but then, apparently
this is shopping all about &mdash; we seldomly have a particularly
thing in mind to buy, we just wonder around, scan and scan and scan
(and I find processing that much information quite tiring actually!),
and trying to convine yourself "that one is not bad.. this one is
good", and so on. 

So while sitting there and watching these, I wonder, the only reason
we do so, is to make yourself **fit in, to be seen** as someone who
knows these stuff, whose life is filled w/, or associated w/, this
type of stuff. It isn't just a status symbol, but rather, is a
psychological treatment, to make ourselves believe, our lives are
somehow overlapping w/ the lives these stores are projecting. Watching
these people in the store actually reminds me a video clip I saw once,
that the first scene is a disco night club where all sort of people
were dancing to the loud music, body moves, heads shake, spirits high;
then, the 2nd scene, th exact same clip, but no music anymore, just
people &mdash; they moved, then became, rather awkward, so stopped at
the end, dispersed.... Watching these people in Muji, or in Mall in
general, reminds me this scene &mdash; they actually look quite,
strange, each w/ a sort of serious look on their faces, deep in
thoughts, appearing to be focused, but to me, deep inside, all I said
to myself was, "fxxxk it, this is fxxxking expansive, ridiculous, who
the hell buys this stuff, what a rip off...."

Sigh, am I just an old fxxxk now? I start to lose interest and the fun
of window shopping, which I used to LOVE! Sad sad sad. But honestly,
try it yourself next time, stand outside yourself, or just watch other
people doing that, you will see what I mean &mdash; so shopping, in
these fancy places, is just another mask we put on &mdash; we try to
transform ourselves into this pretty setting, grabbing something sort
of expansive, but not quite killing ourselves, and that, feels good ~~

You know what is real life, and when you see all the girls in the
neighbourhood in the open, almost in herds!? That's when I walked into
this filthy, smelly, back alley open grocery market this evening, and
saw quite a few young women buying groceries &mdash; they shouldn't be
doing this, really, by the look and by the dress &mdash; they should
have been living a princess life, loved and treasured by someone, kept
away from these chores, shielded from the unsightful side of life. But
then, this is real, this is a cruel side of life... cruel. 

Bumped into a small book store in the middle of this artificial
pedestrian biz district. I usually don't like such settings at
all. This one is, ok, because they sell some old books, which I found
interesting, and the best part of it is, there was nearly no people
there! and no sound, no music, just open windows, golden leaves
falling once a while caught by a gush of breeze, shelves of books, B&W
photos of authors & thinkers on the wall along the top of shelves,
whom I hardly know any except Bernard Russel, but I liked looking at
them &mdash; well, it isn't that much different from many other
boutique bookstores I have been. But I liked this one, not because it
was cool or unique, just a feeling, a mood, perhaps, that I'm tired
now, I want to sit on that little stool, just sit there, half squat,
and breathe.

来, 歇歇脚，就是这样，就是这样，就是这样.
