Title: Memory
Date: 2018-12-05 8:30
Tags: thoughts
Slug: memory
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col l8 m8 center">
  <img src="/images/cute%20cat.png"/>
</figure>


Walking on the road this morning. Chilly early winter day. Rained for
the last two days (or really just on and off of yesterday), and
temperature has dropped to the point that I feel the winter smell.

What makes you sad? and makes you wonder? what makes you to have
thoughts? to feel like writing something? to miss someone? to talk to,
if, anyone? to look at the passing bys, taking interest of what they,
where they are going, or what their life is like?

I don't know. This is indeed a strange city. Maybe taking a walk in
the morning does give you more to think about, to feel about, and to
have something to talk about. Sitting here at Starbucks early morning,
while everybody rushes in and out to get their dose, and xmas song in
the background, should I feel tired to home, where they are looking
forward to the upcoming holiday? But I can't feel that at all. This
empty table, like this empty space, is only giving a replay of the
mornings we were sitting together, also at Starbucks, sometimes
chatting, sometimes just sitting there. Not much to say, but much to
save.

So that is memory. What a terrible thing it is! Can a person be called
a person if s/he does not have memory anymore? Dad is like that. He
has lost a lot of things. You can still say that he has memory, some
arbitrary, arcane ones that even hard for me to understand and to
follow. Yet, the type of memory that lingers in my mind, to remind me
of you, is the best of me, is the worst of my day.

Why there are so many shadows that will not go away? Even this isn't
the one we spent time at, it's the, I don't know, not even the smell,
cause this shop doesn't have any coffee smell at all. So what is it?
The lighting? the hour of the day? the empty chair across to mine? or
maybe, it's nothing of these, but only, because, you still occupy a
spot in my heart, in my mind, front row, center, the only audience I
care to please, care to look at, care to feel.

And here I am, a one man show, staged in what they call life. It has
way passed its prime, but for what it is still left, I am here,
playing the play, just for you.

Wherever you are, and whenever you read this. This is a lonely,
strange winter morning in Shanghai, a city that only makes me feel
tolerable, because it has, or it may have, you.

早安, 美丽的人. 
