Title: Mid night
Date: 2018-04-24 00:00
Slug: mid night
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col l6 m12 s12">
  <img src="{{SITEURL}}/images/missing%20you.png"/>
</figure>

Since coming back from Spring Break trip, my body and mind have been
really tired. Work is progressing fine. A lot of new things to learn,
but overall are quite manageable. But work is just, work. I was
sitting in this good looking, big kitchen 2 o'clock in the morning
after fixing a few things, but I really missed you. 

Writing to you have become a habit, if not the only person I feel an
urge to talk to, to share what comes to my mind, if not what sits on
my soul. But I felt so lonely sometimes, since I don't know where you
are about, and where you will ever be anymore. I asked myself a lot
about whether there will be another time that our path will cross. But
I can't feel it anymore. It feels as strange as if we had never met. I
think it's better that way, I mean, to be able continue the path you
were on, and take me as an episode of fun that enriches your life, but
hold on to a course to what you feel so, and don't be distracted by me
&mdash; I think this will be better, because I never left, and you
will have me there when you need.

I don't know. Life is not hard, it's just sad. It's a bit of sugar in
a lot of sand. It grinds, and grinds, and grinds, till one becomes
mediocre, plain, and somewhat heart-broken.

# America, is actually not a foe

It looks just strange to me that these articles always have an implied
assumption that since America is dominating the world but is not
_doing well_, and China is catching up, if not surpassing, fast, that
the two are looking at a battle/war that only one will come out
live. How ridiculous a view this is!

Through WWI and WWII, honestly, America doesn't owe China. On the
contrary we should be grateful for their supplies to keep the country
afloat. And even as for the world in general, America held up the Ally
camp with its deep pocket and truly had a heart of a gentleman by not
asking for colonies and territories even though at that moment there
was not the slightest doubt that if he wanted, he would have had it.

Besides, the whole talk about ZTE thus the national
risk of not having our own CPU or so is just strange. After all, one
country just can not have everything that he ever needs, period. So
let's say we have come up a CPU capability, then what? Do we need to
implement and manufacture everything in order to feel secure? This is
just not realistic, nor practical. So there will be things that are
ever important to so called national security, yet it is not
controlled and owned by China, and you just have to live with this
reality. If taking the example of an individual person, the practical
approach is simply to be kind to your vendor (for things you don't
have), and probably need to be kind to your customer, too, for things
you have and want to sell.

So the statement or the feeling of anxiety under the name of national
security or national pride, is just bogus. This probably ties to what
I have described as [hurt feelings][1], that you can not control
others' perception, thus China will continue to feel crisis regardless
how powerful it has become, and this feeling of pride or shame
(however you want to interpret it) will not go away, because they have
chosen to feel that way, and there is nothing you can do
about. Therefore, America is definitely a foe in that psychological
sense. Once China has surpassed America, the world No.1 will not
bring them a sense of satisfaction, it will only reveal how
meaningless, or even burdensome, to be called No.1, and how the life
of No.1 is so different from what it is looked like from a lower
position &larr; after all, the grass is always greener on the other
side.

[1]: {filename}/thoughts/hurt%20feeling.md

# Facebook

I feel like a prophet these days. Really. If you ever read my article
on [science][2], you would have known my position &mdash; data is
neither truth nor fact. It contains information, but no theory has
said that this information is good or bad, right or wrong, useful or
useless, will do good or will do bad. Data is actually quite a
dangerous thing, because the burden of information has been of
collecting them and of storing them, in the past. But with the Internet
we have not only made great progress on them, but have gone too far! I
think **we have created too much information** &mdash; not in the
sense of variety and taking much longer to read through, if even
possible to _learn_ and internalize. I think we have **manufactured**
data that are simply misleading, bogus, meaningless, and outright garbage.

[2]: {filename}/thoughts/science.md

The talk about Facebook becomes a laughing stock in China &mdash; a
spectacular show of a hero fall from its shrine. But I think this is
exactly why US will continue to lead technology, because audited by
congress is just not fun, and you'd better get your notes lined up. I
challenge any of the BAT to sit in front a committee like that and
live through such scrutiny. This is like what ppl say about medical
progress, that people nowadays have a lot more problems than before,
but it's because we now have a name for it (before Dad, I challenge
anyone in China has regarded his situation in any medical sense
&mdash; dementia, alzheimer). So let them laugh, **ignorance is the
recipe for happiness, indeed**.

Data collection and so called profiling of a customer or a citizen (as
what China takes big data and AI for), is quite a topic worth
debating. Let's say you get this capability. Then what!? How do you
guard it from doing evil? But this leads to ancient topic that any
power, super power in particular, always poses this same question. If
you look [data integrity][4], you will see that trusting these firms
to be a Saint, or trusting government to be on its good behavior when
they possess such power, is just plainly suicidal.

[4]: {filename}/thoughts/data%20and%20credit%20score.md

# Human lives in a virtual world

Regardless what thoughts I want to express, or to discuss, inevitably
I have to assign them a name, a tag really, because our own name is
really
nothing but a tag (but any new parent takes this tag ever so seriously
as if it had magic power to determine future!) But it just feels so
wrong, while so necessary.

To me, human language (what do you mean by `evil`?) is the **HARD**
limit for human progress. I don't know how philosopher deals with
this.  They must feel more keen of this than I do. When I feel caught
in these **language loop**, this whole world feels like a giant
computer game, that we have invented all the names for things,
invented a word to describe feeling, thought, so on and on, but in the
end, **the least clarity lies in those names, words** &larr; Nouns,
not too bad; adjectives, terrible; verbs, I think they are fine.

Anything with adjective, is just BAD!!! Because it invites an endless
question of what you mean by that, and how do you know that!? But
sadly, Chinese language is filled with adjectives, and they are super
proud of that effect, which leads me right to write
[euphemism][3]. No, I would argue, stop using adjective as much as you
can. Stop using language as if it says what it means, because no one
knows, no one cares, even the language itself does not know what it is
talking about.

[3]: {filename}/thoughts/euphemism.md

It's just all, mess.
