Title: Middleschool
Date: 2019-09-26 09:47
Tags: thoughts
Slug: middleschool
Author: Feng Xia


<figure class="col l6 m6 s12">
  <img src="/images/car%20hitting%20pole.jpg"/>
</figure>


Watching Noah to do homework these days is like watching paint dry
&mdash; a true challenge of patience, and the result is often very
disastrous. His mom decides to _work with him_, but by my observation,
it's more or a less a shouting contest, and Noah showed a strong sign
of rebellion. It makes me both happy because I know he is going into
his teens and is on the track of his development, and mad because his
rebellious attitude, to his mom in particular, has been there since
young, and I worry whether he is also doing so at school, which then
will not abide well w/ others... and, is this why he is having
difficulty to make friends? I have been deliberately skipping to walk
him to bus last few days cause I wanted to give him his own room to
meet and chat w/ his bus friends. But I also know that before long I
won't be part of his routine and life anymore even if I want to join
&mdash; the option window is closing, and it's a sure defeat whether I
like it or not.

Isn't the word _defeat_ the theme of my life these days? &mdash;
everything is slipping away, youth, hair, energy, ambition, my son, my
belief in love, hope in life, passion in another human being... sad,
isn't it!? The only thing I'm still having is curiosity, but even that
is becoming an issue because the more I read and think and write here,
the oftener I'm finding myself to be annoyed by shallow thoughts,
superficial comments, BS views, single-minded opinions, groundless
preference and belief (if you can call that a belief, which I think
the word is being abused to describe something much weaker than a
real belief), pride, and prejudice.... indeed, even by sitting here
and watching office people now lining up in front of the Starbucks, I
can't help wondering whether this becomes an office ritual or an
excuse to step away from desk and chat... maybe both. At least here it
doesn't bear the overblown role of being a social status icon &mdash;
drinking Starbucks is a necessity now in China to be viewed as a
youth, especially if you have an office life of some sort. But not to
ignore that it does have its practical function when your daily
commute involves hours of standing in a crowded subway, and waking up
in early hours and sleep in late either because you need time to
rewind, or just out of habit to be on social media till late at night
&mdash; either way, the young age affords you the level of energy and
resillience to not feel the effect, for a while, until it all catch
up w/ you during a day of your low tide, or just like me, when you are
getting old.

I digged up the old photo of myself when I was also in 6th grade, just
as Noah's age and status. Surprisingly I thought I looked a lot older
and maturer than what the reality really was &larr; here I was,
squatting in the front row as a 三好学生, yet I looked just like Noah
today, probably not even so &mdash; honestly I think Noah possesses a
more mature feeling than I was. How interesting! So I guess Noah isn't
too, childish, after all, as I have imagined, and this may also mean
that he will be just fine, and will be better than I am.

The other night I told him I hated when my parents compared me to some
other kids, and then, Noah cried. I have never seen him so upset. Then
he said "if you don't like that, why are you comparing me to others?"
Hard question. I noticed it that there isn't an alternative if I want
to get a sense how he is doing, I mean, what is the reference here!?
At that moment, I told him that he can either tell me more himself so
I can get the information, which essentially is to use himself, him of
yesterday, as the reference, or it leaves me no choice but to find
an external reference, which is another kid.. but deep down I also
know this is a paradox, a logic that is self-contradicting, and is
unfair to him.... But, what should I do?

I don't know. Maybe I should just buckle up, ride w/ him, however he
is going to become, and pray.
