Title: Medical miracles
Date: 2020-09-28 16:39
Tags: thoughts
Slug: medical miracles
Author: Feng Xia


<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="images/DSC_3070211.JPG"/>
</figure>


This is a topic I have always wanted to write about and research,
because, there are too many times that myself gets tripped up by
arguments or stories presented by someone, that sounds quite logical
and reasonable, but tickles me inside that _something isn't
right_. But, what is it? I haven't been able to pin down. The reason I
call this article "logic fallacies" because fundamentally I believe
the _something_ is a wrong in its logic, its way of fabricating a
causal relationship whereas there isn't one. I truly want to
understand their method in order to identify them and expose them
(honestly, I have this urge to open a lecture, a school maybe, in
China, to talk to people of my findings, if any, so to apply these to
other stories audience can relate and see the common pattern.. what
can I say? I'm a big fan of patterns).

This is probably viewed as an example of those epics of western
medicine vs. Chinese medicine. Here is a miracle doctor who treated a
patient, often the story teller him/her-self with _success_, such as
prolonged life (or avoiding death completly), while the same person
has been seeking medical treatment from hospitals, but has been told
_no more can be done_ (thus, a death sentence). Therefore, the
contrast is:

| Hospital doc                                          | Miracle doc                                               |
|-------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|
| Follow western medical practices                      | Unconventional practices, doesn't even need to be medical |
| Nothing we can do to improve or change this condition | Prolonged life, and sometimes even healed                 |


And the conclusion to follow is that there are powers out there which
we don't understand, and such unconventional practice can be more
effective in some circumstances. To make the statement more personal
and sounding, story teller is often professional trained to believe in
western science, such as a doctor him/her-self, but that belief is now
shaken.

There are multiple logic fallacies in play. Let me try to explain one
by one.

# it implies causal, but there isn't one

The story didn't use the word **because** explicitly, but its logic is
clearly pointing to a causal relationship that patient's improved
condition is the result of whatever done by this miracle doc. So the
equation is:

> Because the miracle doc did A, patient's condition improved.

First of all, patient's condition improved is a necessary condition,
thus can not derive that miracle doc did A. In other words,
enumerating however many patients who have improved or survived after
the hospital sentences, will never get us to draw conclusion that
miracle doc did A (or B, or C, or any).

Second, in order to establish such a causal relationship, one must
isolate the changing factor of the patient's life **to one and only
one** &mdash; miracle doc's intervention. If we can't establish such a
controlled environment, even in lab, how do we know it's not some
street food the patient has eaten last Wednesday that has done the
trick!? Or, for that matter, if we introduce the butterfly effect, why
not a South America bufferfly who has done the trick!? There are
endless possibilities out there, each is equally true (or false) as
the intervention. Unless we have a way to rule those out, picking one
out of a haysack is clearly not convincing.

# it is self-contradicting

Another cornerstone of the story is that hospital has drawn a
conclusion (which, unfortunately, isn't good for the patient's
ears/heart), thus enter the miracle doc when no hope is in sight.

But, let's consider the transition from hospital's decision to the
miracle doc.

If the miracle doc is to take the hospital's conclusion as an
"assumption", thus using his practice to challenge its legitimacy,
which, in all these stories, is to prove the assumption wrong, then
apparently, a single case is not gonna do it. Let's say hospital
determines 100 patients beyond hope, and they all went to this miracle
doc. If miracle took place 10 times, we still have 100-10=90 patients
who die just as the hospital predicted! If only presented by the
numbers here, one would immediately think hospital is a better prophet
than the miracle doc -- what it said actually came true! So in this
case, the story has just defeated its purpose ~~

Alternatively, the miracle doc says, "I'm only taking patients that
hospitals don't take anymore", meaning I'm only treating patients who
have run out of hope w/ hospitals, then, why are you now **trusting
the hospital's conclusion (=out of hope) as your foundation, while
your eventual conclusion is that hospital was wrong! And if the
conclusion stands, wouldn't it then mean that hospital's conclusion
was also wrong, therefore, these patients didn't run out of hope when
they came to you! &mdash; in either way, you see the logic is
self-contradicting, the premise and the conclusion is constantly at
war, and in no way both can be true at the same time!

Let's put this way: hospital in this sense is being staged as a
middleman, if I can get to the God (the miracle doc), why bother to
try the inferior middleman? Let's go straight to the source!

# treating exception as a rule

I have argued [against science][1] before. I'm not here to retract my
criticism of it. While too many things are being called _scientific_,
when they are, I want to use one necessary condition of science for
the following argument &mdash; how repeatable is it!? Being
scientific, or engineering for that matter, to me, meanings the same
outcome is achieved whenever the same inputs are given.

Now apply this to the story. First of all, hospital saw and cures far
more patients than probably the life time of this miracle doc. This I
don't think anyone wouldn't agree with.

Second, if we collect some percentage of improvement on both sides,
guess which one has better score!? 

The fallacy is treating an exception as the rule. And honestly, if you
can't repeat your trick reliably, coming to you will be like drawing a
lottery for cure &mdash; it's not a doctor, it's just dumb luck!

# using a non-fallable statement

After the challenged listed above, the defense has retreated to be

1. "You have to admit that Chinese medicine has its value", or, 
2. "There are things we don't know, right? So it could be just your
   ignorance that you can't comprehend the power of this miracle"....
3. "Everyone has a preference. I believe it, and I don't force you to
   agree with me"

The problem of the first two are simple &rarr; they can not be proven
right or wrong, because **they are perpetually true**! &larr; yes
there is always things we don't know (actually by definition, or,
rather ironically, this is the view of science, not the view of
metaphysics or religion, which these miracles actually belong), and
yes I could very well be ignorant of this miracle method.

But, if I ever turn around these sentences to them, without changing a
single letter, they are also true! and that is exactly the problem!
&mdash; when it is forever true, it's really just a big stick to end
discussion.

The last one is tricky, because it literally puts the story now into a
religious sphere, in which science does not have a seat. Therefore,
there is no point of discussion or debate anymore because no ground
can be built upon &mdash; it's like in an olympic game, and now we
decide to scratch the rules in the middle of a race, who will be the
winner, or loser, or anything!? The entire race has now lost its
meaning.


[1]: {filename}/thoughts/science.md
