Title: Mobs
Date: 2018-12-19 07:55
Tags: thoughts
Slug: mobs
Author: Feng Xia

The news of Ofo is really a good one. I wonder when human (well, human
is really a big word, because this is generalizing to all the walking
lives on this planent, so I should really refine this statement to,
well, people? mass?..) will learn. Really, let's use the word,
**they**, will learn!?

This is a demonstration of the old, repeated, disaster, for both
sides &mdash; as consumers, the mass, when they would learn not to
take what these elites say for granted!? when can they think for
themselves whether the thing in fad is really, a good thing? I have to
again repeat the discussion I had with family and friends 2 years
ago, when Ofo and its cousins were the darling of the media, and
everyone was essentially saying that if you don't understand and not
yet be part of this wave of [sharing economy][1], you are out, old,
obsolete. I questioned many why they think this was a good thing, and
honestly no one was able to explain to me in their own voice. The only
message I got were either quotes quotes that were the same all over
from one to another, making me wonder whether they were literally
copying each other!?, and that it was good because it was convenient,
for someone &mdash; but then, the funny thing is, no one can well
define this "someone"!? who are they? how many are they? why is it
convenient for them? why this convenience didn't work for others? and
if it is that good, then something terribly bad must also be there,
what is it? I mean, even in its simpliest term, if one group of people
benefit so much from this while others were left out, there is a
social implication, which, if is the negative side of this wave, is
itself deserving study and question. 

But the sad reality was, no one, literally no one, voiced a different
opinion! This, is the true tragedy of this fiasco. I will repeat here,
**if you don't hear a different opinion on something, then it is
terribly wrong! stay away from it!** I don't know how people will feel
when they flip back to those talk shows when the CEOs of these
companies were invited to talk about their GRAND idea, and their
_dreams_, and their _success_ &mdash; I truly believe they had a good
capability, ambition, and the least, a willingness to dream big, and
was able to pull it off, even for five minutes, of his/her glory
&mdash; this is better than, me. Not only I admit this, but I envy
this, and totally think they were successful people, in that regard.

What disappointed me was that while they were standing at the height
of where they were, they had a scope and opportunity to view and judge
with much more inside information than I could, yet they did not show
the capability, or even the willingness, to review, to challenge the
exact same idea that had brought them this glory, thus was absorbed by
it and taken in by its own halo, and eventually were taken by its
collapse. Too many parallel can be drawn between these stories &mdash;
what about [Kung Fu Panda][2], that Shifu's pet student turned out to
be a monster, because Shifu was blinded by his love to his prodigy?
Too many such stories! Yet, human, yes, human, don't learn.

Then, on the flip side, mobs. If these proud entrepreneurs can have
one thing to take away, they should now see the motion of the mobs
&mdash; they were blindly led to believe in your story, and when it
collapses, it will be naive to ask them to be **rational** so they
don't just come to your door, with their anger (**and they felt
extremely justified, and logically so, just as they felt extremely
convinced by your shaky story at the beginning, too**), to smash your
windows, trashes your offices, insults yourself and whoever on their
way, and **demanding for justice, when themselves were violating the
exact word, justice, with what they were doing**!

This is the power of the mobs. The underline assumption is literally
this &mdash; **we were never wrong**. When I believed in you, I was
led to believe. I was innocent, defendless, and pure minded. I
benefited, but you benefit more. Didn't you walk away w/ millions,
billions, while I only got a **deserved convenience** (of riding a
free bike)? Didn't I made you the billionaire? Everything you had was
because of, me, me me! Thus, when I am now angry (because I felt I was
cheated), I am simply taking away what I had given you, the piece that
was belong to me, and (who knows, maybe can walk away w/ something
more &mdah; what an opportunist animal mobs really are!) &mdash; but
again, let me make sure, that I'm the victim, I have always been
innocent, and I have never been wrong.

How ugly! How ridiculous this logic really is! Mobs. In this sense,
entrepreneurs do deserve a big paycheck, because they are playing w/
fire. They are 火中取栗, and they can be burned, big time.

I recall seeing the [facebook congress hearing][3]. You know, I like
this guy &mdash; he has a lot of reflection on his success, on his
business, and on how his darling is changing human life. This, is what
I would call the responsibility of an entrepreneur &mdash; it's not
only the responsibility to build a good, healthy environment for
his/her employee because there are many families in the background
whose lives are now depending on his actions, but more importantly,
**a responsibility to reflect, to review, to ask a loads of questions,
of why his has been successful, and how it can go wrong, and what
price someone is paying for his/her benefit**!?? 

We all know the principle that there is no free lunch. Exactly. There
isn't. When you are benefiting from one seemingly such a wonderful
thing, be it an APP, or the quality of life by industrialization,
urbanization, machine age, information wave.... the terms don't
matter, let's just use the cliche name, **progress**... then, what are
we giving up for it? Few can answer this question, even fewer care to
ask. Same for myself. When I came to America, I knew my life would be
a better one than staying behind (at that time of the century). The
family knew we gave up a safety net of caring for parents when they
need us, and I experienced the pain of long distance love over and
over. If these are the price to pay, then it is not a clear cut for
anyone, for myself in particular, whether the price equals the gain
&mdash; like anyone else, we want to have the gains, but not the
pains. Sadly, **it never work that way, for anyone**.

Sign of mobs are, that they are easily **convinced** to judge one good
and the other bad, and they don't question **enough**. If there is one
sign we should look for, to foster, to hope, so that the aggregation
of mobs(= society) is a becoming better, is that there are many many
many many different voices who argue, who fight, who disagree, who
challenge, who is not convinced, who always feel the others' decision
is, questionable..... that, will a sign, that the people are now,
smarter, and safer, to deal with.

The common mistake to make, is that you like to fool foolish people,
and feel awesome that your tricks work out so well... that is only
when, the fools haven't turned on you. **Fools, are, fools. If they
can love you foolishly, they will leave you, in a foolish way,
too. Engaging them, as partner or as a opponent, is making a fool of
yourself.**



[3]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u-FlWZ1BOcA
[2]: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0441773/
[1]: {filename}/thought/sharing%20economy.md
