Title: Musicians
Date: 2019-12-17 09:31
Tags: thoughts
Slug: musicians
Author: Feng Xia

Never thought there are so many musicians in this tiny little
city. But honestly, the first couple tunes got me &mdash; so genuine,
touching, original. I like music, but I don't think music means the
same to me as to this person &mdash; the music came from his inside,
he felt it when he played, he was the music, and the music gave peace
to him.

Met your uncle again tonight. He is a really cool guy. I was very much
surprised that he gave his diary (this is my understanding) to this
young guy whom he was taking in as hist very first student. That's
quite, bold, I would say. I'm curious what he has written in it. But
on the other hand, he showed quite well himself in this move and in
the little poem he wrote &mdash; I felt he is in some kind of mood,
don't know what it is, that he decided to take in a student, but also
felt a bit awkwardness, I guess, thus saying that hoping he would be
able to be a good teacher for three days &mdash; is this because he is
not confident of himself, that he is subject to a change constantly?
or that he is always doing and saying such things in such occasion in
order to be a well rounded person? I don't know him enough to
tell. Nonetheless, it was nice to have a chat w/ him, a legend I only
learned from you, and while chatting, I constantly looked for a trace
to feel, _fearful_, as you have told me once, that you feel afraid of
him sometimes. But I can't see much of it, maybe some, not much
&mdash; he is ok, he has seen much things, done much things, I feel
maybe the age is catching up w/ him also, that he is not as confident
as he was before anymore, and he started to reflect him life, seeking
what is really important, what is just vain. This is just my guess,
but a feeling I had while looking at him &mdash; unlike your grandpa,
whose eyes sparked w/ a youth, wit, and fearlessness, your uncle's had
something uncertain in it.

Watching him playing guitar is quite nice. However, I can't help
wondering whether he is still feeling, happy, by playing. Is he? He
appeared to be high, to be happy, to be in the mood, but only in a few
moments I felt he was in it. In other times, I felt he was trying, but
the word _trying_ exactly made me wonder that deep inside, he is not
as happy and excited as he shows. I really don't him much at all, so
this is just rootless speculation. Anyway, I find him a fine person to
be with, maybe having some habits and lingos picked up from his life
in Beijing, so to be viewed as a sign of coolness. Behind all these,
he is a thoughtful person, maybe even an angry person &mdash; I don't
feel a mind of peace in his play, nor a sense of losing-yourself in
the moment, but an endeavor, an effort, and that, makes feel a bit sad
about him, actually. 

Mr. Zhuang, on the other hand, is just incredibly, musical &mdash; his
play is just, incredible! I can't say how it touches it, but it will,
trust me, it will. Like human sadness, a genuine feeling is
contiguous, is universal, and when you see it, you feel it, like a
dagger piercing your heart &mdash; pain, sharp, real. That's his
music, that's his person, that's his songs &mdash; pain, sharp,
real. I can imagine his limitation which probably hindered his
success. But like everyone else, the weakness is also his strength
&mdash; exactly because such, personality/traits, that his music has
the power to get into you &mdash; is it echoing the same feelings
inside me, that I'm relating myself to him, thus making his music
powerful? Likely, though I don't want to admit.

Had a _early morning_ chat w/ her after all the guests had left last
night. I almost had the moment to tell her why I'm here, but I held
back. I need a person to speak to, but telling her will inevitably
complicate things, maybe even shocking to her, I'm afraid. I only
planned a trip to be here, so that I could see a place you were at, a
little place you might be someday. Yet, fate, truly, fate, surprised
me to a million degrees this time. The moment I stepped into the
courtyard that night, I didn't even know who she is. But in the last
few days I met all the people you had mentioned to me before,
especially grandpa &mdash; I never know, never expected I would ever
meet him in person (same is true to your uncle also), but what an
odds! Not only I saw him, but I sat next to him, listened to him, saw
the place/room you were probably putting up the 窗花 before, and
probably will soon for the new year &mdash; yes, I'm here, as close to
you as I never dreamed; yet, you are like a dream to me now, once
waking up, there is only a slim sense of memory, however sweet it was,
it's no where to be found anymore.....

汤 took some photos of me, and posted them. I don't know whether you
see them, whether you would resent me being here, or thinking that I
had planned all these just to jam myself again into your life. My
dear, please trust me, I didn't, I would never &mdash; I came here,
because I wanted to send your Birthday bless from here, from a place
that meant something to you, that's all. I wanted to see this place,
wanted to be a place that one day, it will see your footsteps again,
that you might hear people talking there was a guy from America who
traveled far far away to find this place, and he was a nice person
&mdash; I wished that you will raise your head from the wechat,
listened to the conversation, and wondered who this person might
be. That's all I wished for, though I got too much more this time, way
too much more.

But my dear, I am here, I was here, for, I miss you, so much.
