Title: Nihilism
Date: 2022-12-23 10:48
Tags: thoughts
Slug: nihilism
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="images/undoing.png"/>
</figure>

Nothing is better than hiding in my little dark room and reading a
book w/ a cozy blanket, and that's what happened yesterday. But the
topic is rather a bizzare one, to my regular taste &mdash; information
technology and its effect on politics, in particular, of the future of
democracy. Written in 2014 and added one more chapter at the end in
2018, the book reads like a prophecy w/ hindsight of Trump and
insurrection.

The point is this &mdash; w/ the spread of the mobile and the
Internet, social elite is losing credibility because they lost the
monopoly of information. What used to be a top-down information flow
whereas all walks of experts, authorities were the final saying of
his/her particular field are being toppled because, inevitably,
their sayings are full of loopholes, which have always been there, but
the public has little access to any alternative reference/information
to discover, let alone to challenge. This echoes mine perception,
which I have joked w/ in many occasions, that Noah and his generation
have all the equal advantage of using Google as much as I do,
therefore their access to so called information is on par w/, if not even
superior than, mine. What this leads to is that the traditional
foundation of me being an authority of whatever a topic to him, now he
has vast other channels to either prove or reject my version.

Now the curious thing is that. With such a challenger, you would think
the sayer, or those authoritative figures, would be more careful w/
their words, w/ more homework and evidence behind the scene so that
they could sustain such challenge. But this is making an assumption on
the sayer's nature that s/he is a **responsible** person, meaning that
s/he feels bad, embrassed, if they were challenged and eventually
proved wrong. But apparently such an assumption of human nature is way
too optimistic. Instead, what we witness at the moment of China speaks
loudly of what a person, a group of persons, or an name tag you would
use to describe this lump sum of bodies, heads, the public, the mass,
the people, are capable of speaking, and believing a non-truth, in a
broad daylight, unshamed, unembarassed, and many times eagerly, and
sincerely.

Let's leave that topic for now. What I want to discuss here is another
thread which I found quite interesting &mdash; [nihilism][1]. This is about
Noah. Now w/ them having access to what used to be a monopoly of
information, like the [Reformation][2], commoners are now in position
to challenge the status quo. But the challenge itself doesn't mean
they are always right. This is why I used the word _information_
deliberately above instead of **knowledge**. I still believe age,
experience and education give a person the edge of translating
information to knowledge. With both of us having the same access to
Google, my knowledge, or should I say my capability to assemble
information, distill and discard bits and pieces, so to supplement my
existing knowledge and/or learning a complete new one, is still
stronger than Noah's. I have no doubt of that. Given another 5-10
years till he reaches post-college, I also have no doubt his
processing capability is going to surpass mine, probably
indefinitely. But again, having a laptop next to a powerful server,
there is nothing logical about the programming running on the laptop
is definitely inferior to a one running on the server &larr; it's the
quality of the software that is more important than the sheer
processing power of the CPU. Likewise, drinking from the same Internet
hose, education, reading, thinking.... all these **soft skills**
determines the quality of **knowledge**.

So, what does this mean? I think there are two aspect of this.

First of all, with visibility to some of the _hidden_ information due
to this technology age, more brains are being activated so that more
are indeed in a position to challenge, and this leads to the
[nihilism][1] &larr; a strong motivation to reject what we have today,
but the key feature of [nihilism][1] is that it does not provide the
alternative &larr; it is not constructive. Taking it to an extreme, it
is actually destructive, and can even be confused w/ being
revolutionary (but it is not! I'll explain later), because its thrust
is at crossing out the present, and even the past (think of how we get
to the _present_ if not because of the **past**!?), but isn't much
interested in analyzing the root cause, thus isn't deep enough to
provide a step forward. This description definitely reminds a young
kid that when the parents are asking "do you want some eggs for
breakfast?" "no" "how about milk?"  "no"... but it's a much harder
question if to ask "so tell me what you'd like to have?"... the barber
I used to go to in east Boston, I remember he quoted his experience
visiting his grand daughter one time, the mom kept asking the 2-year
old what she wanted for breakfast, and he said "that's just crazy!
What does she know about it?".... it sounds very much politically
incorrect these days :) we can't dismiss a two-year old as if s/he
doesn't know, or even think, but we also see that there is a grain of
truth in such a rant. After all, no parent sane enough would listen to
a two-year old for a driving direction, or even give whatever the kid
wants to eat, because all parents know by life experience that the kid
at that age is willing to put anything into his/her mouth w/o a blink.

So here we are, at the early age of information technology, the public
are just like a two-year old. On the one hand we start to get a sense
of this world which were foreign to us without such an
infrastructure. Then on the other hand we are still no in par w/ those
authorities who, like a parent, used to know more, if not know
all. So, naturally we are entering a rebellious phase &larr; sometimes
I wonder, the teenage rebellion is the same symptom of human being
arrogant in face of nature &mdash; we sometimes are firmly believing
in our ability to navigate, to change an existing order, but many
times prematurely, and that leads to this [nihilism][1] &mdash; I
don't like what I have, but I fail to answer what I want.

Second, because challengers themselves are often over-estimating their
knowings, I believe there is still room for elites, experts, or anyone
who holds a deeper thought of a topic. In other words, nihilist,
though massive in numbers now, are more likely than not to be only
able to scratch the shallow surface of things, even though s/he may
feel a keen interest in the topic/agenda. To propose an alternative,
or should I say a **good alternative** other than the status quo,
requires a much harder understanding of the problem, and that learning
experience isn't pleasant at all. In other words, in order to be
constructive, one would have to have intimate knowledge and some
philosophical thinking of the likes & dislikes, and that, like
becoming good at any sports, requires training, self-discipline, and
is an experience mixed of fun & agony. Browsing the Internet makes
casting a net wide easy. But that does not replace you knowing where
to cast the net so you could harvest fish. Not to mention that you, if
taking yourself as now the captain of your own ship, you need to know
your fish's habit, kind, market price, how to preserve them afresh,
navigate the map, battling a tide/storm, managing crew, fixing boat as
you go, and on and on and on.... so, just because I could watch all
the majestic mountain climber youtubes makes me nowhere closer being
able to climb the least challenging hill next door.

Now I start to understand why there is a profession called
"professional agitator", those whose career was to start a
revolution. These people are more than a nihilist. Instead, they offer
alternative, and sometimes have a viable way to achieve that, though
their ways is paved w/ blood and death. The saying that **you could draw
the best picture on a piece of blank is nihilism**; the saying that
**giving God your property and your soul is saved** is
religion. American politics, as a mirror of its residents' sentiments,
have truthfully reflected the teenage-type nihilism, so that Trump and
the 1/6 flattered themselves being revolutionary, but they were but
nihilists &mdash; they don't like eggs and milk for breakfast, but
that's the end in itself. If not the current system of democracy, or
whatever the name you'd like to use, then what? If not the current
voting process, then what?... alternatives seem abundant, I would say,
China? Cuba? North Korea? Congo? Singapore?.... name one, any, then
make a poll of the American public again, or vote (then ironically
isn't this is the same process we don't like!?), see what's the
choice.

Personally, I don't see an alternative. Not that I like what we
have. I truly believe the current two parties are both, not
inspiring. But they are still better than China's. Zhao said to me
when we were discussing a similar topic on Beijing street one night,
"capitalism isn't the best; it is the least evil". What America has is
indeed the boundary of human's thinking in term of governance. Just
like a boundary in physics, it's not an intrinsic sin being the
boundary. Rather, it's offering itself to be proven wrong. Therefore,
its appearance of being broken or unstable is a given, and in my
opinion, is its strength. Nihilism is actually a cowardice. I don't
advocate struggle in life being a virtue, but I totally dismiss
behaving like a 2-year old saying "no" as the only answer.


[1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nihilism
[2]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reformation
