Title: No time
Date: 2019-10-31 08:33
Tags: love
Slug: no time
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col l8 m8 s12">
  <img src="images/starwar.jpg"/>
</figure>

Sad, this is really sad, that I find no time to write down my thoughts
these days. When I had them, usually on the way to work, or was busy
cooking, I thought I would have them down a moment later. But when I
get to the office, immediately I got sidetracked into audition of
Jira, emails, meetings, meetings, meeting of meetings... this pattern
is just becoming too much a bore to my taste. I wonder how those great
author had been able to write what they wrote, while they themselves
must have had all the ordinary worries of life, good days, bad days, a
moment of light, and a long period of darkness? how did they do that?
Is overcoming these nuances the true struggle to deliver those master
pieces? Did these nuances actually make the author, I mean, in the way
that it hardens his/her will, sharpens his/her observation and
feeling, lets him to see through the superficial window dressing of
life, of the matter he was writing about, and forces him to experience
the things that hurts so badly, thus touching not only himself, but
his reader? 

I think so. The real tough thing of living is the life itself, and the
fact that when hardship hits, it doesn't guarantee to end your life,
but only guarantees to makes you unhappy. And while breathing, you
have to sustain and survive the unhappiness, trying to get up again in
the morning, doing whatever the job and the family is calling for,
feeding yourself 3 times a day, dealing w/ water bills, leaking
toilet, miss charged back account, broken down car, traffic, sitting
through meetings which you have little to say but was dragged in as a
head count and _relevant_ person (how ridiculous!), kids suspended by
school or the YMCA because he "laid his hand on another kid" even
though, according to his own account, he was fed up by a kid bullying
another kid, thus **punched** the bullying one in the stomach &larr;
and I gave him credit for doing so, because for the first time in our
relationship I start to see a silhouette of what he will be, and I
like him to be that way &mdash; being a person who doesn't fear to
step forward for things he deems wrong (excellent job Noah!)... and if
you have lived through all these, are in the midst of all these, and
still have a mind and a thought watching out for the world around you
&mdash; the autumn leaves turning color, the breeze w/ a slight
drizzle, the mellow sound of guitar when the air is moist, the night I
was thinking of you, wishing to speak to you of these things, of the
mind when I still have it, of your days, your dream, your wish, your
happiness and sadness, then you should write, write them down, write
them out, write them as they come, as they go, as they hide from you,
appears on one day, disappears on another, but still lingering around
&mdash; yes, write them down, write them down. They are memories, they
are more than memories, they are the only material that makes you a
worth living life, not because you have achieved much, but because you
have endured much, but has not yet given it up, not yet lost the spark
you were born with, and still have a sense of, feeling, of love, of
tenderness, of agitation and anger, of a lot of sighs, and of some
smiles in between, of even laughs &mdash; all these, like marks man
etches on a rock wall or a wood stick to track time, are the tracks
of, you.

So, I'll write, more, if I can, whenever I was thinking of you,
whenever I take a deep of breath of a fresh air, whenever I take
another picture I think it's nice, whenever I have something I want to
show you, to talk to you... whenever, I still know, you are there.

