Title: China's Opportunity
Date: 2019-06-08 17:34
Tags: thoughts
Slug: opportunity
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col l6 m6 s12">
  <img src="/images/annoying%20yearbook.png"/>
  <figcaption>Found this on Reddit. China and all your patriotic
  supporters, don't take this view. It's annoying, and will not make
  you strong.</figcaption>
</figure>

This must be a super upsetting day for Noah, after a super good day
for him and me yesterday, that he brought home his EOG report with a 4
for ELA and a 5(!) for Science!! Very cool very cool ~~~

Then, his beloved sunflower, the only survivor planted in the Spring,
snapped near the root, and is already withering in front of our
eyes. He tried to duck tape them back, but of course that won't
work. I asked him pull the stem in the house so we can take a good
look at it, and later give it a proper bury instead of letting it rot
outside &rarr; so it won't be just another out of sight, out of mind,
event for him. He shed some tears cause he really loved his
sunflower. It was a fine plant, growing already about 5 feet tall now,
and seems going strong. Looking closely at the wound, I think the stem
had a bite mark when it was little, likely from the same offender who
bited all the other sunflowers to death when they were young. So now
growing tall and started to become top heavy, we noticed it was
tilting this morning. Noah built a small support (duck taped together
with two sticks) earlier. But when he tried to correct it even
further, it snapped. This is an accident waiting to happen, not
entirely really his fault at all. But he doesn't link these dots yet,
and that's the pitfall of both why this is upsetting, and why I am
using it as an opportunity to learn a lesson &mdash; accidents will
happen. Some you can recover from, but there are others you can do
nothing about. So it's better to be careful up front to avoid
accidents. That's all one can do, and is all one should do, and when
accident happens, all will be too late.

Sorry Noah. I understand this is upsetting. I really do. I want to
give you some console. But at the mean time, learning the reality of
this is more important and valuable than having a shoulder to lean on
so to pass it quickly &larr; I won't be there all the time. So don't
count on a shoulder of others. Instead, become smarter, wiser, calmer,
it will be much better that way for you, than hoping someone will fix
it for you.

# Huawei's backup and weak logics

Already wrote [about Huawei][1]. Had a few more lunch conversation w/
colleagues, all Chinese living here. The consensus is uniform, that
Huawei is bluffing &larr; if their backups are so good, why haven't
they been using them already? 

I feel this logic is actually interestingly, bad! Here is why.

First of all, this is a sneaky way to argue. This same logic can be
applied to any discussion to shoot down or diminish your opponent's
point by saying that if you already had it, why didn't you show it or
use it already? Well, there isn't a requirement that one **must use
it** when it's available, right? Regardless how weak this question
itself is (which I'll discuss more in the next section), still, there
isn't such a hard line in the ground. Therefore, logically, I do mean
logically, there is nothing wrong w/ Huawei deliberately not using
what they already have, but to pay royalties to Qualcomm and others so
to _put itself in a vulnerable position_ as ppl now perceive. **This
is the same argument that there isn't anything wrong with one choosing
not to marry, or married but not to have kids, or marrying the same
sex, or even his/her pet!!** &larr; it's the speaker's underline
assumption that such requirement exists, though is rational, but
itself doesn't define good/bad, right/wrong, and does not rule out
these alternatives. 

Second, if this logic is so true and sufficient, this makes it
impossible to **develop** and make new discovery then! Think about
it. Before the discovery of North America, ppl (and probably majority
of all ppl) did follow this exact logic, didn't they? that if there
were another piece of land still undiscovered, we would have
discovered by now already! and in science, this would be the same
argument that **if xyz exists (say, some quantum matter a theory
spells out), we would have seen it already** &mdash; well, we all know
this logic doesn't stand, of course. It can't be. The loophole **in
the verb** actually &rarr; this quantum matter does exist, just that
the "see" is different from what we know! So was North America, just
that we didn't know because the ships were not good enough to get
there! So, replay this to Huawei's argument, dismissing their backups
using this logic is at most, weak. They may very well have developed a
secret weapon that is so powerful and awesome, and no one has yet
_seen_ it &mdash; it's the problem of my eye, not them bluffing.

I want to point out these two aspects of weakness of this argument,
because they are everywhere!! &mdash; we use them in arguing whether
there is alien, whether a person is worth his salt (if he is so good,
he must have fortune and fame by now!), and so on... the `not B
&rarr; not A = A &rarr; B`, but to proving either side, itself must be
sufficient. Otherwise, both sides are insufficient. 

# China's opportunity and nationalism

But now back to the consensus, logics might have been a weak one, the
conclusion is correct. I do think Huawei is bluffing, and I think all
the Chinese articles and talks I have been seeing and hearing are
being irresponsible by **not making this harsh conclusion** that
points right to Huawei's nose! Forget about the marketing scheme that
this failure is also an opportunity &mdash; it's the same speaking to
someone who just lost a job that now it's an opportunity for you to
start a new career (or to pursue your dream). Fxxx you. It is only
opportunity if this person has a dream in mind, has been waiting for
such moment, has some practice of it already, and is willing to take
this "opportunity". What would you call someone who just kicked a
non-swimmer into the water and say, hey now it's your opportunity to
learn swimming!!?

Same here for China and its IT (let me use the broad jargon "IT" for
ease of writing) &larr; **I totally believe they are not
ready. Period.**

Take a view from the end of user, the product itself represents a
stack of many layers deep in term of technology. In Huawei's case, let
me just focus on the software aspect of this stack.

For it's chips, design is written in software (eg. verilog), compiled
and simulated in software (according to a talk, all of them are
developed by US companies). Move on to operating system,
libraries/modules, opensource tools, applications, I believe they can
develop applications (but even this is a problem, because one single
company developing software for its own platform has been proven to
fail in the context of mobile apps &larr; you just can't compete with
world's talents, all the app developers who are outside your company,
regardless how big and powerful you are!). But for all the techs on
this stack, Huawei not only doesn't own them, it will have zero chance
to **re-invent** them (as many of the supporters believe), let alone
implementing the entire stack from scratch! No, way.

Then, taking all these to the ground zero, I say the picture is simply
bleak &mdash; all the advanced theories and practices are being rolled
out in the US, and there is one thing I joked about before, but am
darn serious about its implication &mdash; **every single code you can
see, is written in, English!!!!** For those hotheads who are patriotic
and nationalistic, this is one thing that kills your argument 100 to
0! &mdash; Language is for description, and description is driven by a
way of thinking, a view of the world. Therefore, by writting code in
English, dev must be adopting the non-Chinese view and logic, and the
better a programmer you are, the more so you must be!!

Since no company, let alone Huawei, can invent another programming
language in Chinese, the so called opportunity so China is cut off
from the rest of the world and 自己玩, is really, an
impossibility. Regardless how it sounds hurting and is against their
wills, not only I believe US and China are relying on each other and
should be so going forward, by many many practical considerations, but
I find it totally annoying and pretentious when these ppl trumpet
national sentiments when the underline reality is that the new
shinning opportunity are still implemented in **your enemies'
language** (and actually by these enemies' theory and videos and
books.....) Don't they feel ashamed then!?

Well, I can see what their argument will be &mdash; see, we defeat our
enemy using their own weapon. How ever more so satisfying!!... so
really, when someone can look at a logic paradox in such a fashion,
there isn't anything s/he can not believe, and will not
advocate. After all, they pay the lip service, gain attention and
maybe personal gains, and reality always fits in their model,
magically, **so they will never be wrong**. 

What a bunch of God they must be!


[1]: {filename}/thoughts/cup%20of%20joe.md
