Title: People
Date: 2019-07-24 11:33
Tags: thoughts
Slug: people
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="/images/bunny%20not%20happy.jpg"/>
</figure>

What is people? I thought I had it figured out, but now I start to
wonder whether I'm witnessing another make-belief episode in the human
history when an abstract word such as this being used, abused, taken
for granted, without explanation, as if everybody recognizes its
meaning, knowing its intention, understanding its logic, and accepting
its implication.

This, is troublesome, and sometimes I feel the word "troublesome" is
too light a word to describe the evil such usage is releasing &mdash;
it's like a poison released in those Nazi gas chamber, odorless, even
painless. Yet, however long it takes, however _unintrusive_ it is, it
kills.

So, what is people? When I thought I figured it out, I thought the key
problem of this word is that citizen is a given right come with your
birth &mdash; you are a citizen of such country, when you were born
here, or sworn in, and thus being regulated by and abiding the
country's law &mdah; it's both an identity as you own a passport when
travel which says who you are, as well the judicial obligation you are
to be measured against &mdah; if you were a US citizen, you first line
of obligation is observe US law, thus defined as being a good citizen.

People, however, is not a birth right &larr; you don't become a member
of this group by coming to life. Instead, there is a _judge_ somewhere
in the hierarchy who qualifies you as part of the people, or not. And
who will be this judge!? Well, not God, but some human, who uses some
ideology as the yardstick to measure you. Therefore, every context
under **the name of the people**, does not automatically apply to you,
whether good or bad, because it solely depends your status at the
moment &larr; if you are a member of the _people_ then, you get the
cake (and obligations, too); if you are not (stated by this _judge_
whom you hardly even know), well, all bets are off &larr; you have
been outcasted from **a society**, and the most disturbing thing human
has invented form themselves is the saying that 非我族类，其心必异
&mdash; if you are not one of us, you must be one of them
(them===enemy in 99999999.999999999% of the case)!

This, is utterly insane! But everywhere you turn, you see the same
pattern being played out by all kinds of people. Even for yourself,
however honest and decent you are, or you think you are, you find this
same pattern repeated in your everyday word, everyday act, and
everyday decision:

1. Why do we all like friends!? Isn't a friend someone who shares the
   same point of view, or having similar interest, or however s/he
   makes you feel relaxed, secure? Like interest group we belong,
   which is being manifested by social media &mdash; that I like
   reading, thus joining a reading club/channel, I like history, thus
   subscribing a history talk, and so on and so forth.... **Aren't
   they then, 我族类?**
2. I always joke about women's zeal on bags, because if you pull 100
   men off the street, randomly, pick any country, any city, any age,
   any other criteria, as long as they are man, I bet 99 out 100 will
   not know what is that **difference** which make the women yearn for
   between this bag versus the other! &larr; same as for women looking
   at men being addictted his gears, cars, computers, gadgets, games
   &mdash; what's so fun about them? Does this car really run that
   much better than the other one, because you replaced something
   called a muffler!?..... **See, everyone of us, is, and I believe,
   have to, categorize ourselves in one group or another**! It's the
   only way we can ever function and go by our daily life, even though
   if you look from outside, or even from the opposite point of view,
   you find it utterly ridiculous, illogical, unexplainable, probably
   just insanity!.. **but, why so!? and what's the alternative!?** 

So words like the "people", by being such an abstract term, can be
shaped into however way you want. But the underline ingredient is not
changing &mdash; we human somehow want to form a group based on shared
commonalities. Like a star being pulled by some gravity towards a
larger star, that gravity has always existed, we are just slapping
different tags on it, and in the end fooling ourselves that we have
escaped such pull, and can run free. 

I used think government who likes to use the word "people" is purely
manipulating the human mind by feeding the mass a "group" which they
all think they belong to while downplaying the actual existence of
such a **judge** who determines your membership. But in today's
congressional hearing of Robert Mueller, every single senate on the
committee used _American People_ in his/her statement as if this makes
the sentence indisputably correct and legit &mdash; **but then, I asked
myself, who is the American people? who is that hidden boss
determining whether I'm one, or not!? If they want to refer to all the
human living and breathing under this flag, why don't they say,
American citizen!?** Wouldn't it be clearer, and even stronger in
legal sense, that these people were voted to congress by citizens,
thus are responsible for citizens!?

So much I want to shout, that stop using the term "people"!! You don't
represent American people, there isn't even American people!! But
there are American citizens, who have the legal right, and all these
congressmen are employed by citizens. People.. hmmm...what if one day
that boss decides I'm not a people anymore? on what ground? I mean,
God is not determine people's membership, isn't he!? Then, who?

This is a slippery slope, and everybody is volunteering to slide
down with cheers. This, is indeed a dark age, IMHO.
