Title: Pig teammate
Date: 2021-08-05 21:39
Tags: thoughts
Slug: pig teammate
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="images/covid_risk_chart_2x.png"/>
</figure>

My friend's recent experience with her pig teammates were both
disheartening and sad. So she has been working on renew the lease for
her kindergarten for over half year now. The lease runs out on
7/31. Without it, the whole business would have to fold. Then, among
the four partners, the woman who is also the 法人 of the business,
made up all kinds of shits not to sign this paper by herself. But hey,
it isn't an option even, because the landlord insisted 法人 being the
only acceptable party for this. So in the end, just **one day before
the deadline**, the four partners got together for a talk (and even
for this the woman resisted to the last minute, of course, excuses are
cheap and also abundant). After hours of agony, the four signed a new
agreement, included all the lines this woman _wanted to have_, and
planned to go in all together, all four of them, on the signing day
&mdash; three of them being the cheerleader, while this woman put down
the signature.

So far, business as usual, though there have many BS in between which,
if I were my friend, would have dropped the fxxx bomb, "fxxx it! This
isn't even my responsibility! If you want to play game, go fxxx
yourself, see if I care."... oh well well, so my friend is pretty
patient. So here comes the twist, or, should I say, the climax of this
BS drama ~~

The night of their agreement, and we are talking just hours now before
the signing day, the woman announced, _in a casual way_, "oh btw, I
went to Macao a few days ago, and just got a notice that I need to be
quarantined for 14 days", then, out of her little shitty brain, she
attached a photo copy of the notice, as proof, but then, on paper it
says, _starting date: 7/31_, and all this was happening the night of
8/3!!!! WTF!!!! Amazing, isn't it!? You know, talking about being both
shameless and stupid, unbelievable! So this whole thing is now indeed
like dropping a bomb in the lake, because just as I'm writing, China
is into another round of strict lockdown and high alert due to new
waves of corvid-19 new cases over there. So, she took a trip, fine,
her own business, but she didn't reveal this to the partners (which,
btw, all call each other **friends**, wow) either before or during the
gathering, then, she thought how convenient and convincing this would
be to not show up for the signing, as she has always been wishing,
wow, what a scheme!!! Now, all her _friends_ are exposed, potentially,
and they now would have to report their risk, and quarantine
themselves, also.... what kind of person is this! This is totally fxxx
up!

So this whole thing is like a reality show to me, and very
disturbing. For one, I feel bad for my friend who had to deal with
such a nasty situation while she is managing the operation of this
entire business as the CEO (the others are just board members, but
with unlimited BS power!), and she is the only one who is worried
about the lease deadline. But really, how could anyone with a brain
not to realize that this lease is one of the two necessary conditions
for this business to even exist (the other being a license). So
without this lease, they are fxxx-ed. Isn't this as obvious as it can
be!? Even if this woman has this crazy tendency, it is just insane to
choose this moment to manifest her strong will and god knows
what. This is not insanity. This is pure stupidity.

And over there I have found a lot of them &mdash; they may be _smart_,
in the sense of being cunning and manipulating, but they lack the
basic analytical mind, and have no clue what is important and what is
secondary. I think they have been so used to the _everything is
possible, everything is by my will_ kind of baby arrogance, that they
dismiss any written agreement even they had signed it, any words they
have said, any plan they have agreed... just by a whim of will, she
thinks the whole earth will stop and turn the other way, if she says
so. I don't understand why a person could think this way, because this
is really to me unthinkable, not part of a possibility. But these,
_dreamers_?, can certain dream, dare to wish, and no hesitation to
demand.

Back in the days, I would have said that one day life will teach them
the lesson, and they would fall/hurt. But now, honestly, I don't wish
them these at all. Be successful as they are, be rich as they are,
being as sincerely believing in whatever they believe in as they do,
carry on, your path is fine, just that I wish no part of it, and would
never want to take. That's all.

Chiao.
