Title: Plagarism
Date: 2019-04-29 21:13
Tags: thoughts
Slug: plagarism
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col l6 m6 s12">
  <img src="{{SITEURL}}/images/ring.jpg"/>
</figure>


This is a stressful day. What a day! Everything started on the normal
footing, until I looked at emails in the inbox and saw a comment of my
writing being an offender of plagarism &mdash; wow!

Indeed. Wow!

I don't know what else I could say about it. Up to the point that I
have built the exhaustive cross references I have ever known how and
seen in any of the document generated by this company, and I know 99%
of that document was written by me as the sole writer, and if there
were any AI to do an analysis it would have found the **style** of my
writing as if I were writing this blog &mdash; if you write things,
you know there is a distinct way of wordings every writer bears, like
it or not, like a finger print. And yet, plagarism. Wow.

Actually, that's an easy defense to brush it off. What I'm really
frustrated is the terrible mistake the team has made by not keeping up
their own work and let the updates slip, so that the reviewer was
working on the wrong version, thus missed all these fixes and likely
was misled to such perception &mdash; how stupid!! and how incredibly
irresponsible!

Time and again, I have witnessed the China team fail to grasp the idea
of [engineering][1], that requires precision, deep thinking, lots of
hard works to make pieces match, correct, accurate, and hopefully
still elegant and easy to use, but by bluntly throw paperworks over
the wall without ever looking, without ever even trying to understand
the contents, without giving thoughts of how to make coordination
better, easier, for next time at least, but falling into the same
failure pattern, over and over and over.

I truly believe now that engineering, management, are actually the
same thing, because they require the same principle to be good &larr;
essentially, whatever the virtue to make a good human being, is what
would make a good engineer, or a manager, or a good husband, or a good
wife.... it is really the same thing. Well, by putting in this way,
unfortunately it can be derived that the percentage of such population
is, quite low. The majority of the team, the company, the people you
meet or know in life, will be guaranteed disappointing. 

I'm actually amazed how a bad judgment can be so common, even among
supposedly smart people. I really don't get it. One thing I know for
sure is that so called education doesn't change this at all &mdash;
yes you can say it's the fault of a failed education, and degree
certainly doesn't translate to good judgment. Yet, what's the
alternative? what can a person have a good judgment? And when I say
the word judgment, I don't mean like judgment day that will look over
everything you did, and will make a call that is "surely correct"
&mdash; what I mean is simply the subjective decision, the 判断 of a
situation, imagine steps and where they can lead, and out of ambiguity
to pick a path that turns out, by the person's historical track
record, to be mostly good decisions, when looking back.

This sounds easy, right? Isn't everyone already doing it? But there
are paths that are so obviously wrong, that by just taking a couple
steps in your mind, you will see all kinds of questions you don't know
how to answer, and feel that this may not be a good idea. Yet, so many
times, so many times, people take it as if they were blind! The truth
is, I believe, that they don't have the capability to imagine that two
steps and their potential consequences. Period. 

The lack of imagination, kills it. This is the exact trait of a young
kid, you know!? and we can generally agree that kids in young age can
not be _trusted_ for their decision, because they are so short-term
oriented, and so, detail-oriented. Over the weekend I had this
conversation w/ Noah about something. I was using "a couple" as a
description to make a point, and he corrected me immediately that "it
was [a number]"... he totally didn't get what I was trying to make
across, but firmly held on to be sure that the quoted number is
**correct**. 

Kids, one can argue, is too young to have abstract thinking, being
able to derive and to generalize. And here I am, dealing with a
similar crowd who has no imagination, poor decisions, and genuinely
not made for this line of work.

I don't know. I'm tired. I'm the one who is going to be laughed at, I
know. But I do think, even when the entire island thinks I'm insane, I
still believe that it's the island that is not right, not me. Not
because that I'm confident or even arrogant. No. It's the result that
tells me so &mdash; when we go by their thoughts, bad things happen;
when we go by my ways, good things happen.

Well, now we have to justify by whose standard it is good or bad.

Forget it. Let me just get over this fiasco. I'll never get myself
into this mess again.

[1]: {filename}/thoughts/what%20is%20engineering.md
