Title: Post go-live
Date: 2025-06-07 08:43
Tags: thoughts
Slug: post golive
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="images/DSC_3833.JPG"/>
</figure>

Post go-live, and I'm almost, dead. It was so tiring over the N-1 and
cutover weekend, that I start to feel my age, and my passion of
working for the public sector is melting. I admire the dedication
everyone put in during this period, especially for folks who I never
thought would have picked up the ball and run so quickly. Without them
I would not imagine the system would haven even survived!

But, there were many things turned me off, also &mdash; teams who had
an easy time because they had a much longer leadway into the cutover,
did almost, nothing. Nothing in the sense that they simply squandered
the time saved, continued to operate as if the system is already
perfect and they had achieved the goal, thus simply stopped working on
it. They credited themselves of the performance without realizing that
they did not, I do mean they did not, create what they had! The vendor
did 90% of the work, while they played along, inherited the working
copy, and mistakenly thinking they had done a good job. Not
surprised then that their side of the world continue to receive errors
and even blockers! I'm disappointed how an engineer has no initiative
to make things, perfect! Isn't the urge that makes one a good
engineer!? Isn't a professionalism is like? Yet, after 1.5 years of
mentorship, I would say I have failed miserably. I guess some people
are simply refusing to grow.

The moment it was voted going live was emotional, to me! I was tired
after deprivation of sleeps the weeks before, and my nerve was tense
and my expectation was high. It wasn't any surprise that the system
was approved to go-live, and I felt fairly confident at that point
because most of the major pieces have been in place, and the final
integration, though not yet bullet-proof, has been proven, and I don't
foresee much chance they won't work &mdash; after all, one needs to
have faith in his own work and judgement. It's healthy to "trust but
verify", but only to a certain point. Then, you take a leap of
faith. It's like Noah going into a meet. There is not way to play the
exact game twice, thus his performance can always vary from meet to
meet. Yet, the trainings are the insurance, that he can only rely on
that as the foundation going into the race. There isn't 100%
certainty, but there must be self-confidence, trusting in the works
put in, trusting the capability built-up, trusting the will to
perform, and trusting the score he can achieve.

First week now into the post go-live, I can feel that things are
starting to calm down, and myself is having a clearer mind from sleep
and order. I guess I'm really not made to make quick decisions, not
that I can't, but it's super stressful to me because I always felt I
don't have enough thoughts into them, and start to be frustrated and
landed on other people's toes when I seek information to feed such
decision. Fuse become short, and tension becomes high. Sometimes I
wonder whether it's my problem or others' &rarr; I'd like to play the
nice guy, but in moments like those I felt being nice is like one
speaks one set of language, which, if the other party doesn't
understand, guess what, s/he receives no such message, let alone the
intention and reciprocal return of kindness. This isn't unique,
however, in this experience, but is quite universal in many aspect of
life &mdash; different prospectives, different life trajectories,
different culture, different chain of reasonings.... to get someone in
sync w/ you is not only a tall order, I think it's a mission
impossible! But, as now in my position of work, it's rather a
must-have. So, what now?

Sitting here in Open Eye and writing this is such a luxury to me, that
I don't have any burning issue from work to drive (though many many on
the wish lists!), and my mind can start to think of things and topic
like this. Sometimes when looking back in life, I found it truly
**fateful** &mdash; fateful in the sense that in period of life,
somehow **I was given** a way that I could not only balance the life
and work and all the things, but have been continuously moving
forward. How truly lucky I have been! When Noah was little, the Lenovo
job gave me so much flexibility and control of my own schedule that I
could take care of him regardless how crazy his agenda had been. Then
now, my work is literally burying me that I have even no time for
lunch almost everyday. Yet, now he is grown, having his own time and
friend and thoughts and hang-outs, and my crazy schedule can still
sort of work w/ his, sort of. But if mismatching ours by shifting the
periods in time, I could only imagine that I would have become one of
those dads in movies who missed spending time w/ kid and family due to
work, and the happy ending is of him attending to kids' school show by
ditching the work, thus showing what is more important in life &mdash;
I'm in that mode now w/ this work, but I had spent good time w/ Noah,
and I can honestly pad on my own shoulder that he has always been my
priority till this job, and I haven't skipped a single time trumping
his need w/ mine. I may not be a perfect dad, well, after all, this is
my first time doing that, no practice, no rehearsal, some reference
from my dad, but, just like my work, I need to figure things out from
thin air &larr; a sense of achievement, but also a lost of anxiety,
and undoubtedly, mistakes. We grew together, he and I. As I had wished
when he was born, he is becoming a good person. What a gift!

Had a chat w/ Nicole last night. Happy for her! She sent two pictures
she took, what a wonderful photos! They are as cool as any of the cool
shots I have watched on YouTube, absolute master pieces! This makes me
think that, life as a concept is equal to everyone, we all live and
die, and walk through for about that many years. Yet, what a different
**grades** they are! &mdash; me, walking around Chapel Hill, taking
photos of commercial posters on a electricity pole, and Nicole and
many others travel and see the stars. Do I miss much then? If I now
see the photos she took, does it make me also seeing the same view
that she had experienced? and of course, she may have had a sensation
while taking the photo, which I could never receive or duplicate. So
her grade of life is, higher? richer? better? or just, different? I
don't know. But I certainly envy the experience and the works, but it
isn't a feeling of I-wish-I-had-it-too. It's just a realization I
would say, a realization, or a recognition, a proof, that paths are
different, some sees grand view, some sees a small town poster. It
reminds me the movie, life is beautiful. Maybe there is fate to this,
also. Maybe. When looking back, perhaps, in another 10,20 years, I
would then recognize the _plot_, and understand why it must be so,
either by my choice, or by, his? Oh well, I can only do this once, so,
the unbearable lightness of being.

Going to friend's party later today, a delayed birthday celebration,
for myself. Let's take the day off, recover, recharge, re, think,
re-experience, what is inside of me, what makes me happy, makes me
love, makes me who I am.

Enjoy the nice weather.
