Title: QR code
Date: 2023-04-10 05:26
Tags: thoughts
Slug: qr code
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="images/DSC_7503.JPG"/>
</figure>

Stuck at the ticket counter for 30 minutes while the battery is
draining, network is not working, application refuses to download nor
install, and ticket can't be processed until I show this stupid QR
code!

This, is the first taste I had on my real journey to China. Not only
they need the Covid test certificate, but a QR code, which had no
explanation of what this is, where to find it... counter clerks have a
printed piece of paper which had a few code you can scan, which then
brings up a browser with a download option. Then, my browser stuck for
good 5 minutes and gave up, saying the site is unaccessible. Tried
again, downloaded it again.. then it downloaded 10+ times.. then,
finally I open the downloads, find one that the downloading is
complete, an `.apk` file, then click to install... well, Google
doesn't want to install it even though I clicked "Install
anyway"... no, it won't install! Installed failed 5 times, and I was
getting desperate at that point because the battery is draining fast
now with these downloads and installation attempts. What to do? The
clerks repeated the same feedback, "do you have wechat?".. yes I do,
but then, what to do with wechat? So it's an _application_ inside
wechat.. but how to install that!? No idea. No help. In the end,
asking my friend in wechat, you use the _search_ to search for this
app's name... but when searching "China custom", it showed me a whole
bunch of links to articles and announcements!... so finally, the app
is called "china customs", yes, with an "s" in the end.. installed
that, wechat froze for a bit, then showed me a survey form.. ok,
better... then, asking me the contact's name and phone number in
china... didn't I already do this at visa application? I really don't
know how many **visitors** could answer this without consulting some
other _wechat threads_, but you can't! This app is nothing but using
the embedded browser engine in wechat to display a survey, so
switching to other threads will exit this _app_, thus making all the
previously filled information, gone!.... is this wonderful!... so I
had to just make up a number, what do u know!?.. see, this is when a
good person turned bad, voluntarily.

So in the end, after all these frustrations, it showed me a QR code,
with timestamp good for 24 hours!? What does that mean? I'm healthy
for the next 24 hours. So I'm supposed to show this code when arriving
China, also, which makes me to think that we need to make this trip
within 24 hours, otherwise I'm not qualified anymore..... wtf!?
.... welcome, my ass. With the information like how I claimed myself
to be, what's the value of this code? Just a barrier, when they say
jump, you can only ask, how high.
