Title: Racial
Date: 2020-06-13 22:57
Tags: thoughts
Slug: racial
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="images/DSC_1100379.JPG"/>
</figure>

There are many reflection articles these days after the George Floyd
event, and I found them quite interesting because I think there are
many problems in their implication and logic. The other day Noah and I
went to see a protest in downtown Chapel Hill, and a sign said
essentially "if you are not solution, you are part of the problem". I
knew this line at work, but now in this context, I found it misleading
also.

# right to be silent 

First of all, the advocate to voice your stand. An article asking the
Chinese in America to take a stand and voice your opinion, because, if
you don't do so to support the ones in need, there would be nobody to
do for you when they come to you. That's the logic. But here is a
problem. In my view, the right of taking a stand of any kind, is the
same right as me observing a silence. They are the same right, equally
true, they are my decision. Period. The risk of being bulled because
I'm silent is real, but that's exactly the problem we are fighting
&mdash; I shouldn't fear being silent, just as I shouldn't be shamed
being loud of my opinion, either.

# origin of sin

Second, the origin of sin. This is a really flawed base for
argument. The often quoted _fact_ that slaves were dealt inhumanly and
involuntarily requires clarification, because on the surface they were
so, but there are more to it, according to my own common sense. No 1.,
you can't just claim you are 满族 just because you have a funny
surname, or a unique hair style. How do you prove the origin of your
ancestor? Wouldn't it be already a discrimination if the origin is a
default just because of the skin color? Further, slaves at the time
were purchased, like your refrig, with the sole purpose to be in
production and serve. I can't picture anyone at home constantly want
to give the refrig a kick or smash it to pieces entirely, and felt
happy about ut &mdash; then what, buy a new one, or live w/o a
refrig!??? So were the _owners_ of these ancestors &mdash; they must
be brutal and blunt, just like capitalist maximizing your workload,
but they don't have an inborn tendency to destroy you at will just for
the heck of it. It doesn't make sense. These types of origin of sin
statement is nothing but a 道德至高点, and is exactly the same fault as
saying that race  so and so is inferior &mdash; because these things
can't be changed, you don't choose your parents, thus you don't choose
race, or color, or hair, or eye, or height.... and you don't choose
what happened 400 years ago either. It happened. We can't change
that. If we don't like it, let's not make it happen again is all we
can do.

# minority = victim?

Third, minority vs. majority. Such categorization is itself, a BS. If
taking society as a whole and we slice it, I bet there are many slice
sample in which the minority in one sample group is the majority in
another. Then what, does it then make the minority in that sample a
bully target? can it derive that you, as the majority in this sample,
has a tendency to bully? Of course not. Neither. Being minority is
only measured by one dimension, population, and that doesn't lead to
whether it's bullied, or it need protection, or it's precious because
it is rare. Well, if population is the root cause, how about 6-7 kids
per couple encouraged by a fat check per kid at birth! then who will
be the _minority_ in 20 years? do you think that solves the problem?
Of course not. Thinking us as _minority_ is nothing but a victim
sentiment &mdash; it's the same as the origin of sin, that we have
predefined ourselves to be a victim, and of course, then there will be
many _examples_ and _cases_ to prove that we are &larr; by the same
token, I bet there are also _examples_ and _cases_ that prove **we are
not**, then what?

# equal of what?

Next, equal right. It's tempting to announce that the ultimate goal
for everybody is to have equal right. I believe this is a misread of
the "we are born equal" &mdash; first of all, we are not born equal,
as anyone's body can testify, how come they have that beautiful face
and I don't!? There is a slogan of "equal access to opportunity",
which I totally agree. The sign of civilization is that we are
becoming specialist, each one of us, each one of our ancestors. This
itself has guaranteed that your skill/knowlege will be in fashion
today, and mine might be in trend tomorrow &rarr; therefore, it's a
utopia to seek being equal in an abstract sense. It is even shaky to
say we have equal access to opportunity &larr; if I know Python and
you don't, how can you have equal access to a Python job as I do!?
It's simply an argument for argument's sake. So drop it! What we can
strive is an equal treatment by **providers**, not an equal
development by any measure! By treatment I mean the mean to **navigate
in a society**, say, I want to switch a career by learning Python, I
should find teachers/videos/classes subject only to my Python skill,
which is cold, objective (well, it's another debate whether there is
anything objective at all). 

Yeah yeah, if you insist that the test is crooked, and the one who
made up the test is already biased against you, then, honestly,
nothing can be fair, and nothing can help you, or anybody &larr;
again, this is just another way to say, you have an origin of sin, so
shut up &larr; isn't this the exact thing your fight is all abount!?
How ironic.

# I benefit from

It's very interesting that many articles establish a logic that the
rights we, let's say, Asian America, is enjoying is thanked to MLK and
movements like those. I agree, and disagree.

I believe the life we have today is a result of all of the above, of
every single step/event ever happened to mankind, just like our
individual's morning coffee isn't existing out of thin air. Rather,
it's the accumulation of every single second you have so far lived
&mdash; any change in the past would have resulted in you not sitting
here w/ this coffee.

So yes I agree the civil rights movement was truly a respectful
achievement. But to make it an advocate that we need there stand by my
color-ed brothers and sisters because _I owe them_ is flawed. If
following this logic, let's see whom I should be thankful to
first. The founding fathers, of course, without them, there isn't this
country. Well, what colors were they? and veterans, folks who died to
protect us in the two world wars, and the Civil War, what color was
the majority? &larr; doesn't this now lead to that I should thank for
the light skin because they made the most sacrifice? This is the exact
opposite the logic was hoping to convince.

I think we should appreciate all went before us, regardless its color
or whatever. We appreciate them because they represented something I
like to have, today. They worked for it. Like I tell Noah these days,
if you care it enough, make it happen, don't wait for others to make
it happen for you. So same here, ask yourself what you want, not ask
yourself whom you owe to.


# freedom of speech

The only reason for politician to exist is that they represent their
interest group and are wanting their gain. Like in business, the
inborn tendency is that a company wants to become monopoly, because
that's the definition of maximum of my gain. Therefore, the only
inborn tendency for politics is dictatorship. If we all agree monopoly
needs to be prevented, so is dictatorship, a single voice that says
anything it wants without a challenge. The sheer fact that America is
now in turmoil that all kinds of interests are shouting for fairness
or whatever, is a great sign that this country, though has come a long
way on the path to big government and dictatorship extreme, is not yet
losing its diversity, its check and balance, and that, is the
fundamental thing we should care about, nothing else.

I think those Chinese articles are completely missing this point,
because they take it for granted that freedom of speech is a cliche,
and isn't even arousing because it's too, bland. On the contrary, the
purpose of any shouting game or debate or argument or law suit is that
you want to _silence your opponent_, and that is the exact inborn
tendency of a monopoly. It's not only in a government, in a police
department, in a society, but in each one of us, and that's the evil
inside ourselves we must, must, be aware, and fight, individually, and
together. We don't have an option here. Just like when I was jokingly
complain of getting old to my doctor, and he quibbled "think of the
alternative".. hahaha.... so seriously, shout, and have an equal
volume, that's my version of utopia.

# Conclusion

It's a difficult time. It's a time we live in, thus can't see from
without, and can lose sight of things which were otherwise
obvious. I still think this country is the best experiment mankind has
come up so far. It's flawed, rigged, even broken, but it's a flag not
yet down, and think of the alternative ~~
