Title: Revisit
Date: 2019-12-06 18:37
Tags: love
Slug: revisit
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="images/revisit.jpg"/>
</figure>

For the first time in this trip that I can feel the time is finally,
all mine, that I can now plan for things I wanted to do, and see
people I wanted to see. Revisiting seems to be the theme of this trip
&mdash; seeing old friends whom I haven't talked to face to face for
years, some I have been thinking to say something to but don't know
when or ever. Finally, I saw them all, talked to them all, visited
places I always felt I should in case I'm gone the next day. Less
regrets, more peace of mind, like paying back a debt, though the debt
is only on one's emotion, nonetheless it is there, often emerges into
my mind, calling me to settle it, someday, and that someday has
finally, realized.

The feeling after seeing all of them is rather, mixed. To some I can
feel the closeness, that our paths though have come apart, our minds
are still close; to some I feel the distance &mdash; our lives have
all moved on, and the context we are living in are so different now
that there is hardly anything to talk except relating the good old
days, but not much we can all see laying ahead of us. It will only be
fewer and fewer overlaps from now on, sad, isn't it?

Walking in the hotel room at Wanda suddenly reminds me the times Noah
was w/ me. I don't even remember now how many days we stayed here, nor
he went downstairs to the swimming pool or not. Just the settings in
the room is identical as what I remembered, making even think that
this is the same room number we had. How old was he? 3? 4? He was
little! I watched kids on the street who are about that age, how cute
are they! and how small are they!! I can't recall such conclusion when
he was that old, I'm sure he could only have been more cute, more
adorable than all the ones I saw, and yet, I only recall how stressful
the days were &mdash; I don't know whether I'm still depressed, maybe,
I'm pessimistic these days for sure, not because I'm angry at my own
life, but that I'm  too annoyed by the BS floating around, the lies,
the say-one-thing-but-do-another people. Too many of them, too many.

Taiyuan is indeed a homey city. It looks pretty bad, but it feels full
of ordinary people, ordinary life. Walking by a small street grocery
market last night, really sad looking stalls and materials. Yet,
customers don't seem to mind, they bargain, they purchase, they sell,
they live their lives. You know, one thing I start to find different
in this trip is that I become understanding of many things in China
which I used to view as annoyance &mdash; not only I see, but I feel,
that lives here are quite different, that people live differently, and
many live, poorly, but they don't have a choice, they have to get by
24 hours a day just like me, so **when I see them on the street, by such
small market, I used to see disgust, poverty, misery, now I see
courage, bravery, spirit**! 

Life is hard. The one who can still hold his head high deserves
respect, don't you think?

Flying out today to Chengdu, the city that will get me closer to, your
home town. Like a petty thief who walks on a street w/ a stolen
treasure in his pocket, I'm moving closer and closer to the place you
lived once with growing anxiety and excitement. I don't know where you
are about anymore, nor knowing whether you are even willing to be
bothered by all these writings. I don't dare now to reach for a word
or a sound from you, and I don't wish to let you see me again since
I'm becoming old and ugly. But my dear, I can't yet cut the link in my
heart, so I have to find another way to make the tie, w/ you, if not a
future, then the past, a past I will go as far as I could, to find
you.
