Title: Run into
Date: 2019-12-12 15:06
Tags: love
Slug: run into
Author: Feng Xia

What an interesting trip so far! The host wants to take me to the old
town, which I initially thought would be a rather boring trip since I
don't really have much interest in the tourist stuff this time. Yet,
guess whom we ran into!?

Your uncle. What an odds!

She is a famous person, apparently, in this little town, that just
about everywhere we went, there was someone who was nodding to her,
coming to her to chat, and smiled at her. And she had to stop often to
catch up w/ her _old_ friends and so on. Yet, completly unexpected, we
ran into him by the foot of the old city gate. Now watching the tiny
entrance to this new what I would call a private club, I suddenly
realized who he is, because the name of it rings a bell &mdash; I
think you mentioned to me before.

Yes, so here he is, sitting across to me, quite an interesting, and
different person, than I pictured &mdash; he is very, real. I don't
think he is intimidating at all. Maybe he is. Maybe it's just because
we had such a short overlap, that all the politeness was enough to get
by for such a short time, and by touring us the little space he is
making, there was also enough topics to talk about, and enough
opportunity to make it pleasant.

The space is quite, nice, small, cozy, full of, his thoughts. I like
it. Not because it is quite an exquisite place, but that he appears to
be a very thoughtful person. Unlike the _successful_ ego-centric
people I have come to know and disgusted in China, he is quite, real
&mdash; he is full of his own thoughts, and I have to say I agree w/
most of them, not because they are in sync with mine, but that I
respect the process behind getting these thoughts &mdash; unlike a
superficial millionaire, his mind is actively seeking to think over
these thoughts, to come to a term w/ himself. So it doesn't really
matter what it is, as long as it is original, genuine, and sincere,
which I think his words, are.

I tried hard to find a trace on his face of arrogance, of superiority,
some, not much. Then, his look reminds me very much of, you &mdash;
maybe it is the family look you have inherited, the good looking
profile, and sharpness behind bright eyes, the eloquence of expression
which only comes from the self, not another common cliche copied from
pop talks and books. Yes, that is also, you. You may not yet think
this way, but I bet you will, someday, maybe sitting here in this same
court yard, sipping coffee (I think you will take coffee over tea
&larr; my prediction ~~), bathing the sun, reflecting the days you
have had.

Maybe then, you may recall a person, who has passed your life. Will
you then feel that I have been here? I have also taken the coffee, had
the chat, the wall, the tiles, the white washed rooms, the large
windows inviting abundant sunshine into the room, the one lonely soul
who has come all these way to breathe this air, to see this town (but
honestly, never expected I would meet any of the people I have met so
far), just to be close, to you.

I don't know you ever will. Maybe it's better that way. Just like a
passing star, I ran across the sky, not to disturb or bother, but only
to leave a trace in the sky, in life, far far far away, don't know
ever it will pass again, don't know ever you have ever caught the
light, don't know ever you will ever know I have been here... 

But yes, my dearest sunshine, I came, I'm here, I want to see you,
even only there is a wall brick you have touched, I put my hands on
it, I tell myself, here, there is you, as beautiful as a creator can
ever make, as wonderful as a being can ever become, as delicate as the
三角梅 that was growing there, as real, as close, as warm.

I tried million times, to move on, to forget, to let go. The evening
breeze, the village noise in the background, the faint smell of smoke
and food, the mountains w/ its gray outlines in the distance, the
black tiles and white walls that looks both serene and old, none of
these, makes it easier &mdash; I dreamed you sitting on the small
stool next to me, listenning to my tune, or reading this one day, if
only.... I'll leave this fate now. I tried, I did.

Happy birthday again. Be happy, sweet dreams.

2019. 楠园，on the roof top balcony.

