Title: Saturday swimming
Date: 2022-1105 09:14
Tags: thoughts
Slug: saturday swimming
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="images/DSC_4152.JPG"/>
</figure>

Noah's swimming training is going well. Though the kid struggles from
time to time, he has been in this and didn't skip much. After jumping
in the car reluctantly this morning, he started to talk soon after
seeing the figurine I put on the dashboard, and was in a good spirit
shortly. This, actually is pretty rare, and I felt glad that he is
indeed growing up and being more and more behaving like a, grown up? I
don't know whether I really like to him to grow up already. Sometimes
listening to his audio saved in wechat I missed the little boy I
knew. He is not a little boy anymore, which I'm both grateful and
wishing otherwise. I guess that is the dilemma of a parent, wanting
them to grow up quickly, being happy for each step forward they are
taking, but also want them to stay little because then they would
continue to be attach to you, and need you. Soon he will become
independent more and more, like driving himself to places he wants to
go, and even the role of a driver these days won't be there fore me
anymore. Sitting here at deck and watch him diving into the water is
such a bless, especially after a long week of endless working. I know
sometimes it's tough for him to keep on such routine, but I'm hoping
this will help him to find himself, knowing himself, experiencing some
ups and downs, and in the end becomes a strong person that he could
then enjoy this life with a good health, a good spirit, and a good
heart.

China's so called big meeting is official over, so is the fate of this
nation. It's disheartening that an entire society could swing back to
its old course so quickly. One would have imagined that the momentum
of the last three decades would be hard to stop. After all, isn't
there such as thing as inertia and old habit die hard? But apparently
not much so. Old habit die hard, indeed. The old backwards thinking of
having a strong man leading to victory hasn't died in the face of
progress. The boom we saw a few years ago was but a small deviation of
course of the old habit. People living in it at the time thought it
would have been that forever, just like people living in those
terrible 10 years would kill themselves because they felt the same
way. I found it curious how easily a person could be _influenced_ by
these macro environment and in turn lost themselves. For me it was
obvious all along that there had been signs, especially incoherent
signs, that made the story don't add up &mdash; how can a top tier
mall hosting all the world class names having a smelly bathroom? how
can a person in uniform freely stop me walking in subway station for
ID as if he were entitled and I was belittled? how can a business
discuss always ended with "you don't understand China" "we have out
characteristics"? how can elites standing on stage talking about 弯道
超车? how can everyone be millionaire because of real estate as if any
land is now worth a fortune (doesn't the entire Earth is by
definition, a land? then why there is poverty, poor country, poor
people?)... These didn't add up, never did, but people living there,
or I should say, people who were beneficiary of this
made-up-explanation, didn't want to see them. They convinced
themselves, based on their person experience of fortune, that these
incoherence were just imperfections in a world of perfection. Like the
word "chinese characteristics", is a silver bullet to explain
anything. After all, it can't be proven otherwise, true or false.

So in the end, I see this consistency in human nature of
make-to-belief, that a person is always choosing to believe what s/he
wants to believe, and it is completely detached from what the fact
could be. Therefore it becomes important what this person's system of
belief could be. I mean, it's not about what religion he picks up. But
rather, it's about a systematic tendency of what he is **likely** to
be drawn to, just like someone is drawn to spicy food while others to
dessert. There is certainly a grain of this at birth, but the life
experience, education, and what you see and hear daily, so called
propaganda or brain washing, makes up a large portion of it.

Once such tendency is part of you, old habit die hard.
