Title: Say, no
Date: 2017-09-28 12:58
Tags: thoughts
Slug: say no
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col l6 m6 s12 center">
  <img src="images/funny/weekend%20life.png"/>
</figure>


Browsing wechat friend posts, and one image, as common as it actually
is, the **never say no** type of moral pump, suddenly got me thinking.

I used to think the _can do_ attitude is so positive, energetic,
optimistic, worth holding on, worth broadcasting, worth preaching,
worth teaching, worth affecting everyone around me. After all, wasn't
that my motto and I tried to teach Noah that, too, that the _never
give up_ spirit? But when it is used _broadly_
within a context just about anything you can think of, in job, in life,
it feels so, vain, so going into a battle while disregarding the odds
in reality. What about cut loss and run?

Why never say no!? How do you know the condition permits you to say
yes? shouldn't we just quit, sometimes, when our judgement tells us
it's not a good idea to go forward? Like yesterday when Noah and I
played openra and the rush AI just threw at me an army of artileries 
while my defense was not up to hold on &rarr; so I quit. What type of
example and message I have just sent to Noah then? Quitting? Giving
up? but don't we sometimes just need a reset? Yes, I think we all do.

Further, wouldn't it be better to question _everything_ instead of
just accepting the status quo and nod? Why should I commit myself into
a _never say no_ land while no one, including me, has an idea, has
control, of the future? Even if I agree with the slogan, isn't it just
an empty promise? Interestingly this morning NPR was talking about the
NFL kneeling down situation, and one girl was saying "they never fully
explained what this is about? how long is it going to be? how far is
it going to be? what are we trying to achieve? why am I doing this?
.... " exactly. Aren't we supposed to do our own critical thinking
just like that so to make our own _judgement_ on these issues, any issues?

I think the _can do_ attitude is still good, but not with a slogan-ish
propaganda blanketing everything underneath. Yes you need to hold on
to difficult times, if you decide it is worthwhile, for whatever
justification you have for yourself. No one should tell you to do
that; yourself is the only agent you can rely on, should rely on, and
can rely on. Use your own judgement, don't just say yes. Question the
heart out of its origin, intention, argument and assumption. I really
like the her line "why am I doing this?" You can still do it, or not,
just that it is a conscious decision instead of someone made the
decision for you, <span class="myhighlight">because otherwise, you
actually _gave yourself up_ while you thought you were living towards
to the _never give-up_ life, and how ironic that will be</span>. Very.
