Title: Self-esteem
Date: 2019-03-07 09:00
Tags: thoughts
Slug: self-esteem
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col l6 m6 s12">
  <img src="/images/kid%20feeling%20sad.jpg"/>
</figure>

I start to understand now, better perhaps, than before, that what
self-esteem feels like, and why women have this anxiety of so.

With aging I start to notice that hair is becoming less, and this has
been bothering me for the last few weeks when I started to notice
it. Not that I'm going bald or anything, just that comparing to what I
had, it feels, less.

Then, all of sudden, I start to realize this is exactly how women feel
all along in their life, that they want to lose weight, they want to
look young! I have always laughed at such attempt, calling it a **lost
battle** because there is really no point of trying so, for that first
of all it doesn't really change who they are, no man is going to love
or not love you just because you have a few extra pounds. Actually,
most of them who are bothered by their "weight" look just fine,
really, in my eyes at least, there is not obesity or anything even
close to that mark, so the crying is more like a crying wolf to me,
and probably to most men! and also, honestly even though all men love
girls in their young 20s, grown ups also understand that what is
important is who you are, is the mind, not the body, and the
desperation of making the face look young will only make the wrinkles
on the neck or hand even more standing out &larr; it's like that
empire who walks around naked but may be having a perfect hairdo, so
what's the point.

But now, I think I see better. All these, regardless it's hair, or
wrinkle, or weight, or whatever that may be bothering you, the
underline message is the same, that there is something you don't have
control over (aging, after all, is the most natural outcome one can
expect, besides death, and arguably tax, but that's a man-made thing
so I would discount it some, thought it's the most surely thing, and
the most annoying thing!), and it is in a conflicting course of an
image you would like yourself to possess. 

So there are two folds of this line &mdash; an image you project for
yourself, and a unstoppable force to destroy that image. Rationally if
the force is beyond one's control, the only alternative is to change
the projection, isn't it!? But here where human mind gets tangled and
anxious. We are so clinging onto that projection that our entire so
called self-esteem is based on it, and without self-esteem, well, the
life is really like a house of cards &mdash; it collapses by taking
just one card away, especially one from the bottom, such as this
self-esteem thing.

It's lucky for men, most of them, that they are so immature in their
young that they all feel great about themselves, had an illusion that
they are the most handsome, coolest guy, by looking into a mirror to
admire one's face, hair, or expansive car, or sport, or just that
man's organ, while at the same age, women, on the other hand, are
living in anxiety for their weight, for their under-developed or over
developed breast, for their "imperfect" figure, for not having that
handbag, or a lip stick, or a coat that fits this year's fashion, and
so on &larr; so the feeling of anxiety starts much much much earlier
for women than for men, how unfortunate this is!

But then, this long agony of living with anxiety also make women,
wiser, more mature, and more self-aware. Many men, even in their 30s,
40s, or even older, live like a kid who never grew up &mdash; they
take themselves to be the center of the universe, and live by their
imaginary image, perfectly in peace, and proud of themselves, while
their wives, girlfriends, lovers, mistresses, daughters, see through
all these and are in struggle to fight off the uncomfort such
realization brings.

Jessie said that ignorance is a bless. Indeed. If only I could always
live in such a bless, by not knowing so much, not thinking so much,
not being so self-aware, life would be a much happier journey than me
now worrying about such a nuance as a hair! Yes one can also argue
that this is only so because I'm not wise enough to think OVER these
thoughts. Once I become truly wise, such thing certainly doesn't
bother me a bit anymore.

Well, true and true. At the meantime, I'm also thinking, if anxiety
has made women a smarter group comparing to men, maybe, it's a good
thing to have &rarr; that I'm not bloated to believe in that I'm the
handsomest person on earth, and will become humble, truer of who I am,
what I can and can not do, and in the end, a more honest person, I
hope, than without such pain.

I don't know. Giving up a self-made image is hard. I don't think we
need to. But we can look back to ourselves in a better mirror, though
you don't look good in that mirror, it's one better than fooling
ourselves, or being fooled &mdash; we are all, and just, who we are,
no more, and no less. At least, that's what others see.
