Title: Should I
Date: 2020-07-15 20:45
Tags: thoughts
Slug: should i
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col l6 m6 s12">
  <img src="images/car%20dent%20apology%20letter.png"/>
</figure>

It is a very curious question, and it is a super fundamental question
&mdash; the question of moral compass. Isn't there thing that we
shouldn't do, without reason/condition/excuse? If so, how do we
determine?

It all started w/ a _regular_ struggle with Noah and his homework
today. He didn't do his Kumon, but claimed he did. The conversation
went around and around with common excuse that "I can't focus" "why do
I need to catch up all these" "I didn't lie", and on and on and
on. Led him to the sidewalk outside the house, and asked him to rob a
car or a neighbour if no one is going to catch him, and he refused to
do so. So I was trying to make a point that there are things that are
wrong to do, thus we don't do it, regardless whether we will be caught
or what the punishment can be. Yes there is always a fear factor that
restrict our behaviors, and that's in the realm of law. But there is
another realm, and that's your moral. Unfortunately, as of writing, I
think his moral is very weak, and on some aspects simply don't
exist. It sounds pretty cliche, or normal, for a child. But I'm
struggling w/ this _view_, because there are things that so
fundamental and core that there is a native recognition, inborn
understanding, that we don't them, like killing someone walking by,
stealing neighbor's whatever, or, lie.

I start to realize lying is a tendency that, in a way, is an original
sin, that everybody carries. We lie because we are caught in a
scenario that the truth will hurt yourself, thus we choose to lie so
to pretend things didn't happen that way, or that we could get away
unnoticed. The root is that we had an action we feel shameful to
admit, so we lie. But it's more than a matter of convenience. It's
poisonous, contagious, and even more humiliating than the mistake you
are trying to cover. Christian will bring up God as the police that
you have to face him eventually for your lies. Noah doesn't face God,
and I don't believe in Him yet. So what hold us not to lie? Apparently
nothing. So Noah chose to lie about his homework, over and over and
over, and punishment such as taking away his TV time, or grounded for
the day, or a lecture by me, none worked, none checked this habitual
instinctive reaction in such circumstance.

So are we then doomed? I think we are. But it makes it even more,
rewarding, if we face the impossibility, and fight to do the _right_
thing &mdash; be honest w/ my mistake, be apologetic to my wrong
dealing from time to time, be regretful w/ what I could have done
differently for a better outcome. It is difficult, and many times I
fell just like he did, because I didn't see so, or because I didn't
feel lying was an unbearable shame... many many times. 

Yet, I always picture myself one day lying on my death bed, looking
back at myself and my life, there are moments I feel proud of myself,
that I defeated this native tendency and chose the harder course
because it was the _right thing to do_. It may have hurt me one way or
another, and probably made no difference at all. But I felt proud, of
myself, of the courage I had, of the person in that moment who made
that choice. Honestly, those moments were the only thing that made
you, and your life, worthwhile. Few of us leaves any legacy behind as
fortune and fame. Most of us will pass like a dust in the wind, left
no trace, and have been forgotten as soon as we are dead. But we
passed this world once, passed this life once, experience, had. In
those moments of honesty, you didn't just pass by, you were immortal.

I wish one day Noah will read this, and wish then that he would
understand, and agree w/ my argument. I wish.
