Title: Sound of silence
Date: 2017-05-31 7:45
Tags: thoughts
Slug: sound of silence
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s4">
  <img src="/images/funny/life%20kick.jpg"/>
</figure>

What is everybody looking for? Identity? I see people in the middle of
the social rung are all searching for something. Waking up this
morning and walking on the street, the place was certainly busier
after the holiday, more ppl, more cars, more purpose. Do ppl at the
bottom of the rung bother with a purpose in life? and if you look at
the social spectrum, can I say there are only two ppl who are probably
not bothered by this question &mdash; the two at each extreme of the
spectrum, then everyone else fall into the **middle**, so called
middle class? But I don't believe the richest of the rich is anxiety
free either. He has his own problems, just that I don't know. It's too
far away form the life I know of that the problem is keenly true to
him, but irrelevant to me. Well, almost so, until by the pattern of
history, his trouble and his struggle will flow into my life at some
point and make my life uncomfortable, too. But that's like Nth degree
of indirection.  So as far as I'm concerned, his trouble stays in his
life, and I get mine.

I know everybody is looking for something. The most recent thought I
have is that people are looking for an image of themselves, someone
that they want to be, living the life they want to have.  I can't say
she is searching for the meaning of life. Life can be quite
__meaningless__. After all it's a subjective judgement &mdash; yours
vs. mine. Your life might be wonderfully exciting, to you, but quite
meaningless, to me. So what is this image or life that everybody is
looking for? I know everyone has a different opinion. But why two ppl
will fall in love? Do they have a similar <span
class="myhighlight">image of life</span> in mind? At the moment of
romance they certainly thought they do. But how come the images always
become further apart after a while, even after they have been living
together for a while, sometimes a long time? Did their images change?
Why didn't they stay in sync? You would think that after they went
through many things in common in their lives, they would now share
more and more of the same projections of being, which I suppose should
bring them closer and closer. But no. More likely they find each
other's pitfalls that doesn't fit with the image, and the initial
thought of similarity became conflict, and they walk apart, live
apart, love apart. How sad. But why?

I have been watching young lovers sitting at food table, while one of
them would pull out the iphone (or whatever) and.. and there is no
__and__. The person isn't really doing much actually. She (pardon me,
let me use "she" for the convenience of writing) will scroll, scroll,
chat, chat, flip from screen to screen, click an icon to launch an
app, shut it down after maybe 10 secs, flip, flip, click another icon,
launch back the chat, no message, switch..... that's really boring!
and she is really bored! And the guy would be on his phone, playing
games? chatting with friends? or doing same boring finger dance? 

I don't get it. When two ppl spending time together at breakfast or
dinner, it's a commitment to me, that I'm willing to spend these
minutes of my life, with you. I have so much to say, to comment, to
share with you, just watch the ppl coming in and out this place,
aren't they fascinating? The girl standing at the corner has a
wonderful legs. The guy ordering food has obnoxious attitude, and he
didn't bathe before leaving home this morning, how can any girl want
to touch or kiss him? but then his wife (or gf, or whatever) has a
nice dress, and they have a baby! How could that be? Doesn't the woman
deserve someone, better? but she looks, satisfied, and bored?  And I
like watching you, with your fine hair, your eyes sparkling with you,
the only sparkle you can have, and how wonderful this is.... there are
just sooooo much to talk about, to go around, to spend this time,
together, truly, together, not just two well-known-to-each-other
strangers each owns a fancy mobile phone. **For God sake anyone can own
a phone like that if s/he chooses so, but not everyone can spend the
time with her, with him, with you**.

I heard the sign of lost love and lost passion is when two have
nothing to talk about. <span class="myhighlight">How sad, the sound of
silence.</span> Not that there isn't all the interesting things
around, they are still there. But you mentally shutdown and are not
willing to open up your mind anymore. Why? Because the other person
doesn't agree with you? and the conversation turns into an argument
which you don't want to repeat for the thousandth time? what about the
image of yourself now? What is the image you have in mind? someone who
is looking for an applause, a supporter, a fan? If so, isn't it rather
childish to think that way? or is it? Doesn't everybody wants to be
agreed upon, especially by the one who is the closest? wait, didn't
that person become the closest to you because s/he used to agree with
you, all the time? So what you are truly looking for is the sense of
recognition then. Is it replaceable by something else other than the
person sitting next to you? Why s/he carries so much weight and you
are so eager to get his/her approval? What if one day s/he challenges
you? will you feel abandoned? is that how breakup works?

Too many questions, zero answer. It's ok. One thing I know is that
time is the most precious gift one can give. Time is given to
everyone, but no one can make more. If I spend these seconds with you,
that's what I want to have, want to have you in my life, want to have
the memory of you in my life, want to take over the many seconds of
your life too. My life becomes shorter, so is yours, and we both give
a few seconds of ourselves, to each other. Isn't it better than any
gift or present or handbags or roses or whatever?

If you still love, even just yourself, give the piece of your life to
that person, whose hand you just held, whose night you just spent
with, whose skin you just touched, whose name you just said, whose
smell you just can't forget, whose will to share that segment of
memory with you, fully. Don't busy yourself with the boring phone,
really. If you have the power to revert time or wipe it clean
afterwards, your time is actually more than what I can imagine. But
for now, if you are a walking body with all the fits and emotions and
desires like I have, please, look at him, look at her, how wonderful
that is, that this human being, also chose to have you, in memory, in
life, in time.

