Title: Smart phone
Date: 2019-10-05 08:42
Tags: thoughts
Slug: smart phone
Author: Feng Xia


<figure class="col l8 m8 s12">
  <img src="images/gozilla%20on%20lego.jpg"/>
</figure>

I have long been wanting to discuss this topic &mdash; smart
phone. This discussion/thought had started in 2014 when I was in 太原
and was chatting w/ 谢部 at a Starbucks downstairs near her
office. Out of my own experience w/ this type of devices &mdash; a 红
米 given by my uncle, then later a new one I bought myself, w/o any
previous experience in the States before I went (I insisted using a
cheap flip phone back then), thus was forcing myself to use a smart
phone with nothing but practical purpose &mdash; to communicate w/
family and colleague and customer, to navigate the places completely
strange to me, and so on &rarr; thus, I consider this experience to be
quite fresh and genuine because it has no prefix, nor bias. Besides,
considering myself to be a tech person, I didn't expect there would
have been much a barrier to adopt the new trend, and enjoy it.

But, my opinion was, and still is, that:

1. It is not smart at all.
2. As a matter of fact, the touch screen is quite annoying, and very
   un-user-friendly!
3. And it is a fad for the time being, but is not the future, because
   it has an assumption, which I believe is untrue.
   
# not smart

It's called smart phone simply for marketing reason. In my eyes it is
nothing but a computer in disguise, even the first time I heard and
saw such thing. I don't understand why people are sooo hailing its
_invention_ as if this was a shocking discovery that no one but Jobs
had conceived and made it reality.

Quite to the contrary. Everything on this device has been invented,
implemented, marketed, and failed, on a personal laptop, before. I
recall back in probably 2000 or even earlier that Norman Lee was
saying he wanted to buy a $2000 laptop w/ touch screen because it
would help his Ph.D research presentation w/ colleagues. Myself had
also looked at a non-brand-name laptop before buying the Sony one
which offered touch screen &mdash; which essentially is just a way to
tell the mouse where it should be instead of using a touchpad.

I was not aware of GPS inside a device. But it's not a far fetch to
think they must have existed in such small format in some portal
device already &mdash; I bet REI must have carried such hiking gadget
if I had looked. Hell, I remember there were Casio watch boasting to
have compass built in! And for the communication modules &mdash; wifi,
bluetooth, you name it, they have all been there as a card in desktop,
or a smaller card in laptop, or, in the smart phone's case, an even
smaller fashion. And there will always be SoC if one is willing to pay
the $$. So hardware wise, this is a commercial success instead of an
engineering achievement, in my view.

Once you realize this is a computer, well, then it is just as smart as
any software engineer can make it, no more, no less. As of today, all
the things a user does on this phone bears such a distinct mark of a
computer user &mdash; click, tap, type in a command in some fancy
looking search box &mdash; **this is just as uninteresting as one can
be**! Not to mention how awkward software now has to adapt to an army
of different resolution, screen size, browser engine.... this is
ridiculous! Next time when you think it is smart, you should really
make it more accurate that this is a phone programmed by some poor
smart software engineer who had ironed out the quirks and put in a
gazzilions of `try.. except` statements so that the code path your
usage will traverse is like a tiny proportion comparing to what s/he
has done, thus it appears to be super smart, super stable, super
thoughtful.

When people have been unwilling to adopt a laptop as an everyday toy,
they are eagerly embracing the same device only dressed in a different
costume. This, says a lot about human and human psyche.

# poor user interface

I really don't like touch screen, at all.

The number one annoyance is that people seem not to realize in 99% of
the time, the one single control you want to click/tap is occupying
like 5% of the screen or less! 

1. How many times you have tried to click on that `close` window cross
   icon which is not nearly as large as your finger (yeah, finger tip,
   by its wording, can be just a tiny dot to the infinite smallness,
   isn't it! This is insane.) Then you have to take a deep breath,
   focus your mind momentarily, stead your hand, poke, and w/ a bit of
   luck, to get that icon.

2. How many times you are on the phone, and it touches your cheek, and
   when you look down to either search for the keypad or mute button,
   man, it is a screen you don't expect! and you have to leave the
   phone off your ear **so you can see**, and trying to fix it, while
   your mind is going into panic mode because now you might be missing
   whatever is on the phone the other end is saying! This is
   ridiculous to the Nth degree! And btw, holding a large square next
   to your ear looks really strange, especially on woman! I can't
   believe why women will tolerate such, and some even are proud of
   their devices. Honestly, this is the opposite of what I understand
   what a woman will like &mdash; don't they like soft, airy, light
   things!? This device is nothing but the complete opposite of
   these. 
   
3. How many times half of your screen is taken by the keypad, so when
   you are typing a long message, especially in paragraph, it becomes
   very annoying if you want to look back what you just said. Even
   worse, the WeChat input box is, what, 2 lines of input space!? and
   people are still spending hours typing into that! This is just
   utterly disgusting! Really! Sometimes I think, maybe unfairly, but
   truthful to myself, that whoever designed such input style is
   just stupid, or is just giving all the users a GIANT MIDDLE
   FINGER. And for the users who still like it, man, they are just
   stupid. Period.
   
4. More on typing. I just read a slashdot that [thumb typing is now
   achieving a good typing speed as if on a real keyboard][1]. Yeah,
   you can call this a text book example of human adaption to
   environment. But in my mind, the speed isn't the issue; the error
   rate is. Just how many times you have been typing away when your
   mind is flowing, and you had to erase words, wrong letters, over
   and over again, because, well, that keypad is too small for your
   elegant finger(tip) that is **fat and unprecise**! Typing on these
   phones always remind me that if I were so good at aiming at that
   little square which occupies like a tiny bit of the screen, I could
   have become a real pianist! This, again, is just, ridiculous!


# it will go away

The smart phone won the battle against other _smart_ devices back in
2007 time frame not because it had superior technology &larr; at the
time, two other competitors who also offered user network connections,
which is the foundation of everything we rave about a smart phone and
its apps, were GPS and regular wifi. GPS was very much applicable to
user who spends a lot of time in car; and regular wifi has been there
long before the smart phone, and places like MIT not only had an
incredible campus network, but students had hacked together the
concept of city wifi by volunteering their computers as router so to
connect from one hop to the next!

So, the only reason phone became the winner is that, people must have
a phone out of living necessity &mdash; you have to have a phone to
call somebody to conduct business and life. That's all it is. If
internet calling could have been as cheap and quality as we have today
(it was limited both by the infrastructure bandwidth and compression
algorithm), regular laptop could have stood a real chance.

Anyway. 

Then, there is an argument that even with the wearing smart devices,
it will still require a "brain" &mdash; a command center that is to
coordinate them &larr; however, to me this is just another sign of the
current thinking how computer and program work today. However, it is
more likely that individually these distributed computing unit,
borrowing the term **service**, will expose a certain API that can be
utilized by whoever wants to use the service, and each handles its own
service within &mdash; very much like the idea of central government
vs. decentralized governing, many of the things can be done by
decentralized fashion while there will be certain activities only
possible or cost-effective if centrally managed... as a matter of
fact, I believe the more computer evolves, the more its interaction
with each other will mirror the human society with its benefits and
challenges, and certainly the problems which the human society has yet
to find a solution. Like how society evolves also, it will naturally
start w/ a central command center (kings, lords, leaders), but will
inevitably driving towards a distributed governing model, then hit
some scenarios that can not be handled individually, thus inviting
swinging towards the opposite direction, and then back and forth with
endless debates, as what we see in politics, ideologies, today.

# conclusion

There you have it. Smart phone is an interesting device. However, up
till today I have yet to find it essential, and far from being
impossible to live without. The strongest argument will be about
social media, but even on that I have stated a different opinion in
[this article][2]. Therefore, I really consider myself to be an
opponent against all these _smart_ devices in general &mdash; in the
same vein that I'm suspicious of the word "intelligent this or
that". There isn't anything magical about them; there are only hours
of frustration, abstract modeling, strong assumption of usage, more
test and code paths than any one user can possibly exceed, and
unbelievable peer pressure that when your friends are using this app,
that phone, you (think) you must have it, too.

Instead of viewing them as a technology achievement, it is more
interesting as a social experiment which reveals and manifest human's
inner desire, fear, anxiety, and like.

[1]: https://mobile.slashdot.org/story/19/10/03/221259/typing-speeds-on-mobiles-rival-keyboard-users-says-report

[2]: {filename}/thoughts/social%20media.md
