Title: Social media
Date: 2018-08-03 21:00
Tags: thoughts
Slug: social media
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col l8 m8 s12">
  <img src="{{SITEURL}}/images/facebook.png"/>
</figure>

The recent downfall of Facebook stock and its data privacy fiasco have
been spectacular, and saddening. People are talking about data privacy
as if it is an evil just releases from Gene's bottle, and of course,
when a giant like Facebook shows a crack, millions are worked up to
bring it dow, for its great tragedy that years later all MBA books and
zillion talks on evolution of technology will have a lot of fun to awe
its audience, and for profiting from such a downfall if only it is so
predictable and exciting, like any revolution that mobs are bringing
down the ruling authority and everyone sees an opportunity to
reshuffle the social deck he or she has been given, and maybe this
time a better card will be in hand.

All in all, this is a true irony, that the social networking giant is
facing a social force that it both created, and in an arena he is the
king. 

But really, what I want to talk about is something even more
fundamental than privacy, and more worthwhile to debate and reflect,
if not alarmingly being too little, too late. Because over the last 10
years, the word `social networking` has been hailed as the gospel of
the future, but truly this was done more genuinely than what is of
those buzz words flooding the media nowadays such as AI, big data
anaylsys, or sharing economy, since it does touch something core to
human existence, on which I will be discussing in this essay.

Social media and social networking have indeed transformed
communication method that people are device-savy are engaging. Not
only it is convenient to talk to your dad and mom internationally or
nationally; it has become a forum of ideas, opinions, life in a
real-time sense, and manifested and recorded in a degree that has
never happened and possible in the past. One hundred or one thousand
years later historians and researchers will face an overwhelmingly
amount of day-to-day or even minute-to-minute data to reconstruct what
our life in year 2018 is like. No more speculation and guess work from
some books written decades since the even happened, and from debris or
broken pieces of archaeology artifacts to derive/reverse-engineer what
is like. If assuming that data is still readable then, and data is
processable and understandable then, then this generation must be the
one that has been mostly documented, recorded, manifested as if
everyone is on a stage, hunger for information and for attention.


I'm not a fan of posting my life, nor a fan seeing alerts/updates of
someone I know has just left for lunch, or having a cup of coffee,
everyday at this time. But it' ok if you like to make your life known,
however the side you choose to show, prefer to be remembered, and
be eager to run away from. I have no problem with this at all. But
there is other things of social networking that I feel deserve much
attention, which unfortunately has not been given by media, by public,
by private citizen, by everyone whose reference of daily life and
meaning is being changed by them.


# torturing yourself

Watching any wechat user, or any of the 13 billion Chinese
walking on the street, standing on escalator, sitting somewhere,
eating, riding a subway, climbing stairs, dating with friends,
gathering with family, participating a meeting, talking to client or
boss or whoever, toileting... if driving and texting is bad, then I
think shitting and wechatting is disgusting, disturbing, humiliating,
bizzare, degrading, unhealthy, and utterly covering your beloved phone
with germs and god knows what, and for no good reason whatsoever.


Because if you are only willing to take one step back out of this
**fantastic high** of constant suspension (yes indeed this is the
suspense movie you are starring!), I highly suspect any part of your
life is living such a cutting edge and importance that it can not be
missed, even for a few minutes. Really, even God rests on Sunday, whom
do you think you are!?

This level of **anxiety**, yes, if you are a social networking user,
**you are anxious**, is just bizzare! This is worse than mid-age
crisis, because it does not care whether your true age is mid or
not. The anxiety to see a response to your `message in a bottle` is
getting to your nerve &mdas; oh mine mine mine, did s/he say something
to my post? ... oh nothing yet... <20 seconds later> .... didn't I
feel the phone just lighted up? there is new message!....<20 seconds
later>... maybe it's here now... I'm always watching such strange
reality show with an urge to laugh and to pity &mdash; at the end of
day, why put yourself through such a misery by torturing yourself with
anxiety, by caring so much how others react to you, how they comment
on a conversation, how they view your activity, how they think about
you, how they like or dislike you!?

I understand the argument that as a social member, as all human are
meant to be one, and gively I agree with this statement, thus a person
must care about others' view of you, makes a kind gesture to fit in,
and be a good citizen &larr; it's duty, built-in requirement, thus
inevitable, necessary, and justified.

I get it. I'm not against human society, relationship, even though I'm
quite anti-social these days that I don't enjoy hanging out with
people I don't enjoy hanging out with, and I don't give a fxxx who the
fxx this person is if s/he is someone I'm interested in knowing, am
happy to be with, and am willing to have a relationship. But really,
often than not I think this argument is only **borrowed** by the
person to justify his checking-my-phone-every-20-seconds
behavior. **Fundamentally, s/he take herself/himself too seriously.**
Universe is rotating around her, thus if you have not yet responded to
her message, you must be composing it as we speak, or must be
digesting her meaningful words and formulating a reply in
mind... either way, your mind is occupied by this input, and should
display CPU 100% on all cores, and all memory used up!

But the reality is, how many people in your life you would care so
much!? I know one, and you probably have, whatever, a few, a
dozen?.... it won't be many, that's the point, because if there are
many, then you are either playing a God's role, or you are treating
them equally shittyly, because you don't know what **care means**. So,
now take a flip side of this, how many would consider you as that
person s/he cares!? Equally, the odds is pretty low. So really, if you
feel otherwise, either you are in love, or you are in a high and
refusing to wake up.

This is not some dark theory I'm proposing on human. This is how human
emotion is &mdash; emotion is an expansive item to have, it take s
tremendous energy, space, life. Most of us so called common people
simply have no such capacity to create that much caring and love that
can drive and support the type of **anxious-of-your-response**
pattern! We just can't, and will not.

> Therefore, bringing such an anxiety on yourself is completly rootless,
> and can only be viewed as a sign of poor judgement of yourself, your
> social networking participants, and the word `relationship` in general.
>

# slowing down your brain

Another effect of social media, and enabled by technology, is that
your day is becoming a long list of `[20, 20, 20, 20......]` (in
seconds). Not only the anxiety and disappointment of not seeing a
response tortures your mind, this pattern forces your brain to
constantly doing a [context switching][1] &larr; ask your IT friend,
if he is worth his salt, he will know the conclusion, that **context
switching is expansive**. It is necessary, but any designer will show
his smartness by avoiding unnecessary switching whenever
possible. This is not just a technical talk of optimization; this is
basic principle, because at the end of day, your brain is what defines
you, no one yet I know of is willingly to be called "slow", or
"stupid", and we often laugh at animals such as Dash (Zootopia)
because he reacts slooooooooowly!

> Then why the heck you want to slow down your brain by forcing it to
> context switching every 20 seconds!!!!????
> 
> Isn't this, stupid, or what!?
>

# prisoner of diversity

Have your noticed, heard, and must have experienced, that by so called
`user profiling` backed by big data analysis and AI, that on one hand
you don't need to bother with Amazon search much at all, since all the
products you bought, often buy, likely to be interested, aligned with
your shopping cart history, derived from what they know about your
needs, your taste, your life, are right there! How convenient!

Then, at the same time, Youtube becomes static, any recommendation of
the sort described above becomes, **STATIC**. You are seeing
recommendations as your top choice, and the more you choose from them,
well, the stronger a belief that you do like this type of stuff!
&rarr; this is becoming **completly self-propelling and
self-fullfilling**!

This actually proves a point I have longed to state, that when
information becomes overwhelmingly abundant, a person will be
saturated (again, see my brain analysis in previous section), thus his
only method to handle this is to **limit inputs**, thus we are seeing
proliferation of the **reader's digest of book club** dressed in name
of condensed information (or even more shamelessly, educator in a 21st
form, give me a break!!), and also, profiling. Both share the same
characteristics that **please make a decision for me** &mdash; you
know, I'm not sure they are doing anything wrong while writing this
line, because I suspect human, or most people, are just lazy, they
don't like to think, to explore. I think this is explained by my
context switching argument above!!! How nice!

So well, my point is that these so called recommendations and
what-you-know-about-me (even-better-than-myself!) urban myth, are
putting us into a prison of diversity of views. Our inputs are
converging, willingly and unknowingly, thus our outputs will also
converge, which re-inforces **the legitimacy of those choices given to
us, not chosen by us**.

> If you enjoy anxiety, this is actually something worth feeling anxious
> about &mdash; that we are losing not only the ability to choose, but
> the options to choose from. In today's social networking high, we are
> feeling not too few, but too many choices. But if not careful, this
> exactly fact is driving us into the other extreme, that we will still
> have more than ever to choose from, just they are becoming the same!!
> 
> Remember Ford's T-model? that we can make it any color you want, as
> long as it is black.
> 
> Wow.
> 


# who am I, and who are you

If I have not scared you up to this point, there is one more thing
that social networking has done a wonderful job that is even more
spectacular than smashing your waking time to pieces &mdash; it has
smashed yourself into pieces.

Every person is a unity of God knows how many different persons in one
body &mdash; there is part of you who loves badminton, another part
who loves music, another who loves books, another who loves woman or
man or whatever, another who enjoys computer, another who loves
family, another who cares your ex girlfriend(s), ..... you get the
picture. There isn't, has never been, a single YOU. There has always
been a bundle of different you, that is being simplified, labeled as,
you. 

What the social networking does is to bubble these sides of you up and
manifest them so that now you are member of a history group because
you all love reading history books, a member of the kids club because
all of your kids are rising 4th grade, a member of this interest
group, a member of that, a member of ..... so what used to be a blob
of blur, a feel and a preference that is fuzzy, hard to define and
hard to describe, now social networking computers have built abstracts
and database models to define them precisely and accurately (remember,
they know better of yourself than you do), and all these sides are now
clearer than ever, almost even defined, and certainly visible, and you
are actively aware of their existence.

While you are excitingly discovering yourself and finding it
satisfying that these many sides of you have all found its groups, you
have also submitted yourself to be re-defined in a modular
fashion. The good news is that this is exactly how dating app works,
that you fill in a form to describe you, and computer uses these
`attributes` of you to match for literally a `percentage` of
similarity &mdash; you two have 80% in common in term of hobbies! wow,
very likely you will like each other! Actually, this, if not
deciphering the mystery of LOVE, is helping to improve the odds of
initial success (well, initial is hard, but a success in marriage is
much much harder, and odds by looking at court filings doesn't look
encouraging).

But then, what is a marriage anymore, if I'm only loving the 20% of
you!? or even 80%, 90%!? What about the 10% left!? Do I seek to
satisfy that _outside the marriage_? Is it then justified for me or
for you to do so? After all, look, math is pretty clear here, 100%
overlapping is an impossibility, so we all have to live with a gap
here &mdash; this actually feels right, because we have all know that
no one is perfect, and some will even take this further to state that
no one is perfect for you... haha.... 

> Well, so when I talk you next time, or work with you, or having a
> coffee, which part of you am I talking to? looking at? having a
> relationship with? Do I even need to ask or confirm or request that a
> particular side of you is the one I want to talk to, to love, to care?
> and even with such possibility, what if you disagree, but willing to
> give me the "I love fashion" side of you to be with my "let go for a
> movie" side of me!? Is this a mismatch? or just fine?
> 


This is just, weird. 

[1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Context_switch
