Title: Speak up
Date: 2021-11-06 20:17
Tags: thoughts
Slug: speak up
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="images/battle%20of%201894.png"/>
</figure>


It has been a while since last update. Thoughts come and go. Sometimes
they appeared suddenly, like a light, but I was always in the middle
of something, I suppose, so they just eluded me. How sad... the funny
thing is, the older I become, the more fearful I become if ideas and
thoughts don't come to me. Especially, when chatting with friends, I
started to see myself repeating the same idea and way of speaking over
and over... such a, _stable version_, is both a product of some
offline thinking regarding the topic, and a sign that my opinions are
becoming fixed. At this age I do think having a fixed opinion on many
things is both a good thing and a natural outcome &mdash; after these
many years of living and working and life experience, I doubt I could
be shocked or surprised by much anymore. Everything is like a routine,
and everything and everyone look pretty much the same, mean the same,
to me. I hardly even find myself laugh much these days anymore. It
feels like a cloud over the heart, that blocks the sun from peeking
through. Once a while, the light rays come out. But those moments are
rare, and don't last long, either. Anyway.

I'm here to talk about a moment in this [movie][1], a well known one I
have watched many many times since childhood, and was **impressed** by
what I read from it this time &mdash; indeed, life experience is
giving me a sharper ear and a sharper eye now than before, that I
picked up something I never realized before!

So here is the scene. In the first encounter w/ Japanese navy, the
main character's boat ran out of ammunition. The sailor, who was
portraited as a hero, was frustrated to the point that he was
speechless. Then, the main character, the captain, came down from his
post, asking, "Why did you stop shooting?"... silence.. "Why?"... the
two looked at each other, as if speaking through the eyes... "It
is...", not finishing the line, the sailor choked, supposedly from his
extreme frustration over this eluding opportunity to hit enemy.

But here is what I dislike &mdash; this type of interaction, the so
called **please guess my mind** way of communication, is absolutely
BS, unproductive, and hurtful! For God sake, this is in a battle
field, and being able to get information passed on clearly and
efficiently is as critical as it gets. Yet, the sailor had to speak
**nothing**, and let the captain come to the spot, asking "why", and
still don't get a straight answer until a couple tries!!! This is
ridiculous! But very Chinese! I have related another one in [this
blog][2]. Both are examples of what I call the **corruption of the
Chinese language**. I don't know why and what is going on w/ these
people, or the script writer, who value such way of talking over
speaking up directly, and honestly. But I can be sure, this is exact
the root of the problem of all the misfortunes people over there are
experiencing, fighting over, and suffering from. No exception!

Without giving out a straight answer seems an art of talking. But I
would say, NO!! This isn't art! This is nothing but being cunning,
irresponsible, and giving yourself an excuse not to think of the topic
much. In the end, you are dodging to have an opinion on the subject,
which, even though having an opinion always sound arrogant, arbitrary,
your-words-against-mine, but I still believe there isn't an
alternative to this. Call this the curse of human being &mdash; you
must have an opinion, whether you speak up or not. Since you do, I
think it's better to speak up, speak out, speak straight... The sailor
should have shouted, "Sir, we run out of ammunition now! What should
we do?"... and by saving the captain from climbing down to get this
info in order to make a decision, the whole boat could have been more
efficiently run, and who knows, maybe it could have indeed won that
battle, as so many had wished.

But this lesson is still not learned. And everywhere you turn there,
you see the same pattern over and over and over &mdash; guess my mind,
guess my intention, guess my command.... everyone is reading of
everyone's mind, yet, no Yuri has been identified. So the entire
matter, be it a country, a school, an individual, is turned into a
giant riddle, whereas everyone is making it more and more difficult
with each speaking chance.


[1]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QydOhkfT4Jc
[2]: {filename}/thoughts/irresponsible%20response.md
