Title: Stay connected
Date: 2019-04-06 14:11
Tags: thoughts
Slug: stay connected
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="/images/fanghua.jpeg"/>
</figure>


It is indeed quite a long time, 21 years. A friend of mine reminded me
that, this year has been the 21st year since we knew each other. This
is also the age of the internet chat I would say, because we met each
other online, as an early adopter of these chat applications, ICQ,
which was the mother of all chat applications including the copycat,
the Chinese QQ, and of course, now its sequel, the enormous Wechat. 

I don't know how our relationship survived the 21 years, during which
many years we had zero contact, zero news of each other. Then when we
started to talk to each other again last December, that I learned she
was then staying in a village somewhere in the west of China doing
some sort of volunteering work, we didn't feel too strange at all.

But this isn't giving me a formula how to maintain the other
relationships in life to be as long-living as this one. You can easily
say that it takes two in a personal relationship, thus this case
worked because both of us did not have a grudge against each other,
and was quite neutral to either having it or not having it &rarr; no
pressure, no expectation, thus no regret.  Then, for many others, such
condition does not exist, which make them improbably to continue or to
resume.

True, true. But also, I feel there is a fate, an element of
uncontrollable destiny in play, that two trajectories happen to be far
apart, but crossing still. Since last march I have been thinking why
my marriage w/ Noah's mom would end up like this? what was the
difference, or how it could have been different? On my part I had much
hope, much expectation, much judgement, and much less tolerance. But
how can two be together not having these traits? Is the connection of
me and this friend that is more like a two drifting rocks in space
living happily with or without the other is the way to last? Can it
even be called a connection, because most part of the time we were
really not, connected!?

To think of it, the number might be impressive, but the density was,
little. We could still claim that we know each other, but the reality
is, I don't know much of her, her life, her circle, her agenda, her
passion, anything, really. So there isn't really much there. But w/
Noah's mom, I still face everything accompanied w/ Noah's life &mdash;
drop off at school, not doing or turning in homework, arrangement for
a non-school day, spring break, summer break, need medication,
shuttling to badminton, breakfast at Panera, grocery shopping, so on
and so forth. Not that these are joyful and exciting. On the contrary,
the only word I can think of is, grinding. But they are, heavy, solid,
like a rock lying in the middle of the road, you can't go around it,
you can't run over it, you can't ignore it, you can't pick another
road, you can't have option not to deal with it &rarr; you have to get
up, get down, use all your energy, tools, and sometimes even more than
what you know, to remove it, clear the path, so you can make pass one
single day &mdash; they are too real, too mercilessly confronting, and
always they win.

So there you have it, one that ties you down to the ground, you feel
you have wings but you can never fly w/ that weight. And these
long-time acquaintance, friend, ex this and ex that, reminds you how
long it has been, how long you have survived, and checking whether
there is any soul left in it, that's still beeping, still breathing.

I have always had a feeling, that the end of my life will be like the
author of the 红楼梦, or that movie, 芳华, that another woman I have
long known, will be at side, leaning against each other. All passions
are gone, only wounds left, huddle to only keep warm.

Sad, isn't it?
