Title: S.T.E.M
Date: 2019-10-24 13:38
Tags: thoughts
Slug: stem
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col l6 m6 s12">
  <img src="images/charlie.jpg"/>
</figure>

Finally, I learned what is S.T.E.M &mdash; **S**cience,
**T**echnology, **E**ngineering, **M**ath, and here is a [slashdot][1]
opinion on why we still need an English major.

I can't agree more.

I believe we are living in an era in which science, technology,
development, progress are being hailed as the new gospel. As if they
bring no burden but only solve the existing problem, we treat them as
a free lunch while each one of us are well versed that there is no
free lunch, of any kind, ever. Instead, they are wonderful but not
magical; they solve things while creating new issues &mdash; it's the
natural course of progress, of course, but they shouldn't be set in an
altar. On the contrary, I think we need more debates on its
[responsibility][3] and its role in the [society][2].

Education, another buzz word that is forever on any adult's mind
regarding their children and their _awesome future_, is becoming
another window dressing that can be used to promote and propogate
these trends (or, should I just call them, fads!?) so that they are
deemed holly, thus immune from attacks, criticism, or even doubt. But
if one takes one step back to look at what is occupying the mind of
the media, thus the crowds, one has to wonder that on the one hand why
the society is so diverse, thus becoming impossible to manage, and on
the other, so synchronized, that herd effect is seen everywhere, all
the time, in every country, some better, some worse, but just the
same. Why!?

When I first went to BU, the slogan of its "arts and science" seemed
rather strange to my ears &mdash; grantedly I was all about STEM back
then, arts, huh, who needs arts? I was never able to understand much
of the arts, though honestly I tried. So to me back then the idea of
arts w/ science is like marrying arts up to a prince, or down marry of
a prince to Dianna, not from the same league, but w/ some love in the
scene, sure.

But more and more I start to appreciate the power, the beauty, the
necessity of arts. I forced myself to read Dr. Zhivago since I liked
that movie very much, just to have a starting point of reading
novel. I am still struggling w/ arts, though I have long been in love
with music, many kinds, really, almost like women &mdash; there is
always someone you find appealing, interesting, tempting, even
beautiful, among any crowd &mdash; so is music, on a given day, there
might be a tune on your mind, and can vibrate a chord in your heart,
and make you cry.

Yes, we need arts, we need English major, we need writers, need poets,
need these people not only because their creation touches us, but they
often have such a deep perception of human, of the society, of the
era, that when captured in word, in painting, in movie, in tune,
becomes crystalized, preserved for ages, don't get old, don't become
obsolete, hardly even become irrelevant or weak, because it's the
human core they have penetrated, have the eyes and ears to see and
hear, have skill to describe, have the desire to share, have the
courage to face.

STEM and English majors, are sense, and sensibility.

[1]: https://news.slashdot.org/story/19/10/23/1851224/the-worlds-top-economists-just-made-the-case-for-why-we-still-need-english-majors

[2]: {filename}/thoughts/technology%20and%20society.md
[3]: {filename}/thoughts/technology%20responsibility.md
