Title: Too little sympathy, too much generalization
Date: 2018-03-23 11:30
Tags: thoughts
Slug: sympathy
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col l6 m6 s12">
  <img src="images/the%20general%20problem.png"/>
</figure>


Noah is a taking social intelligence course. A conversation gets me
thinking, what is to measure a social intelligence? My observation of
kids (and adults, too) is that we need **sympathy** &mdash; the
feeling that your action will affect others in this or that way, and
the uncomfort the others display truly get to you so you feel bad
about it, too. It's hard, actually. How many times you curse the
ass-hole on the road who just speed by you without a slightest concern
what he does affects you one or another.

But, on the other hand, where to draw the line!? You can be doing
things while thinking about how others are going to feel &larr; this
is just not practical, even the intention is certainly sound. I have
discussed this in great length in my [hurt feeling episode][1]. Then
further down the line, there is broadly used generalization of,
everything! One post in our highschool wechat page is that Arizona
Phoenix sold a piece of property that looks like a China town to a
chinese SOE, and the company is going to tear it down. The outcry is
that if this happens to Phoenix today, it is coming to Chinatown in
Boston, NYC, and so on. Well, this is certainly an exaggerated example
because the **logic of generalization** is too obvious and too weak to
be defendable &mdash; to me, this is a typical case of tactic of fear
when someone (the author?) uses to stir a public emotion in order to,
not even achieve a goal I'm afraid, but sheer chaos and disturbance.

[1]: {filename}/thoughts/hurt%20feeling.md

Another case in the headline news these days is the Florida mass
shooting. Honestly, I can't think of any solution to this,
problem. The shooter is coward, because school will always be a target
for these ppl &mdash; they are vulnerable, easy target, and killing
kids hurt the most, to their family, and to the society. This is an
economic calculation, not even a hatred motivation &mdash; "I want to
maximize the outcome with my hit", or the "why you rob a bank? that's
where the money is." type of logic. If you hate ppl, or society, or
just want to create grief, shooting kids is the logical, optimized
move. How terrible this is!!!

But then, sympathy leads right into generalization &mdash; if it
happened in Florida, it may happen here, to my kids, too. I understand
the feeling. Well, not only I understand, I share this whole
heartedly. Everyday dropping off Noah at school becomes a jittering
experience. A phone call from school reporting "we need to talk to you
that Noah had an incident" is bad and upsetting enough; now
imagine.... god I don't dare to even imagine that! So yes, I share the
grief, share the pain, share the urge to _do something_ so to prevent
this from happening.

However, I'm also thinking, are we generalizing!? School shooting
creates an uproar in society because the social image of kids are such
a crown jewel and the least disputable concensus in all society
(pointing me one tribe, group, state, country, religion that kids are
not deemed a near-God status) that it creates the perfect target for
maximizing damage, and also the perfect foundation for generalization
without being challenged. 

I don't think anybody wants their kids hurt at school. But, does
anyone want to get cancer? HIV? or hit by a car? or not looking like
Brad Pitt?.... HIV and Cancer are always the poster child of the
uncurable disease. But the fact is, more ppl die from some low-profile
name everyone just shrugs shoulder when hearing them. When was the
last time you heard somebody talking about [malaria][2], one thing
made me truly admire what Bill Gates is doing with his fortune and fame!?
And even talking about kids, I listen to [NPR's report on Myanmar][3],
young girls at age of 14 are being exploited, by local women and even
their own family member, as sex slave(!)... and who is making an
outcry for them, why aren't we are generalizing on their behalf!?

[2]: https://www.gatesfoundation.org/What-We-Do/Global-Health/Malaria
[3]: https://www.npr.org/tags/125939032/myanmar

Sad, isn't it? So this leads me to another reasoning, that what get
heard, get attention, get front page, is indeed decided by the
attention of ppl, or, what we care about. This sounds like a
cleche. Of course, only ppl's attention will decide what they hear and
care. Then what determines that? education? media? propaganda?

I feel I'm running down a rabbit hole again. Sigh. Human society is
just messy. Sorry, I don't get it, don't have an answer, not even a
clue.

At the mean time, hold on to `sympathy` in its generalized term. At
least we should feel sad when others are sad, feel sorry when others
suffer, and try to understand how our acts will affect others,
intentionally or not. That's all.
