Title: Tea Alley
Date: 2019-12-09 17:24
Tags: love
Slug: tea alley
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="images/tea%20alley.jpg"/>
</figure>

By pure odds, I stepped into this tea alley &mdash; just the kind I
was hoping to do in Chengdu. Yet, sitting there among all the old men
who were playing Mahjiong or pokers, I felt, old, felt, irrelevant,
felt, sad. 

I wanted to write something, I did, but the words didn't carry how I
felt. I smiled, chatted w/ the old woman who was attending the tables,
had a good time listening to her life and her stories, and yet, I
felt, void, inside. Was it because of the shade that there was no sun
but only a clear day? was it because the lights were getting dim
towards the end of day when I sat down? was it because I waited too
long for my noodle to come, thus getting frustrated? or, was it
because, this is a city of you, and yet, I couldn't imagine how it
would ever be like sitting here, w/ you aside?

Will you like this setting? this type of life? Will you join me, if I
get this old and do what these people do? or, will you just let me sit
here, alone, as I was doing then? Will you feel anything if I told you
I'm here, just to be close to you? I don't know where this place, I
liked it, liked the wall arts (which is quite amazing!), like the
people who spent their entire day strolling up and down the street, or
just sitting here sipping their tea and watching a game others play
&mdash; I don't know what they get out of it by watching, but they
enjoy, they don't even mind standing there for a long time, just
standing there, watching, how interesting! Will you like this? I think
you will, when you are tired of walking, of pursuing the things that
are vain and empty, of running your brain 24 hours a day on some
difficult problems, of being stressed by ignorant or arrogant people
and their illogical decision, of being anyone but yourself, as if you
are drifting, alone, among thousands of other fall leaves, falling,
and beautiful.

Maybe. Maybe, one day, you will be sitting here, in this alley, at
this table, on this chair. Maybe, you will be chatting w/ this woman
who is still here, and she mentions years back there was a guy from
Beijing, sitting here, chatting w/ her, saying goodbye when he left,
wishing to see her again, and, that would put a smile on her face
&mdash; though, she doesn't know, I was there, only to feel, this
city, this life, this place, that in my imagination, is what you used
to be &mdash; hearing kids shouting and laughing behind the their
campus walls just by the alley, mixed w/ a few bare light bulbs on
each table for the light, so, it is night, so, I am here, in this mega
city, in this corner of the city, in this grayness of a winter
evening, missing you.

Tomorrow, I'll be on the road again, a long long bus ride which is
almost the same length from the States to China. I don't know how well
I will fare. But no matter. This is a place I want to see, a place I
want to be, on this day, no matter how far it is, how hard the trip
will be, I'll be there. It's funny that twice in my life I made a trip
to this part of the country &mdash; unexpected, fateful. 

So it is. 
