Title: Technology responsibility
Date: 2018-08-16 11:25
Tags: thoughts
Slug: technology responsibility
Author: Feng Xia


<figure class="col l5 m5 s12">
  <img src="/images/funny/adam-eve-cartoon-cholesterol.jpg"/>
</figure>



This is a really a [fascinating person][1]. He is eloquent, which I
have the impression that his mind runs million miles per second. You
can feel it's churning at a speed so to compose the next line and the
next thought, which now while writing, feels so different from [Linus][2],
whose Q&A sessions filled w/ pauses that he would try to express his
view while choosing words, but at the end of day it was just a topic
he had no feeling of, and no interest in, which quite like what I feel
these days &rarr; you feel compelled to express if you have a view and
have a feeling of something, someone; while for others, well, I really
don't care, and have no interested in saying anything, whether it is
pleasing to audience or not.

What touched me, and got me think today, is Frank said about
technology. He asked technology to think harder how people can use it
in a `self-serving` way, and to build a box around it so to circumvent
its abuse. This is quite in the same call that people talk about
facebook fiasco, which I have ranted my view on [social media][3]. It
feels right, and actually I'd like to see it happen. But as an
engineer who implements these technology, I feel challenged.

# it is actually practical

First of all, I don't think it is practical to even foresee how people
can abuse your technology. Like when any sharp knife is banned on
airplane after 911. To me, if I'm intending to do harm to people, then
without accessing to a sharp knife becomes an inconvenience, not a
stopper. What about the fork they issued you at lunch? and even a
chord of some sort will be enough to strangle someone. But I also
think this logic is valid, because this is the same for, say, bike
locks, that it doesn't stop bike thief, just makes his stealing
harder, takes longer, thus increasing his risk of being caught, which
in turn deterring him from trying.

Therefore, the prevention logic is not to stop, but to raise the bar
so your determination has to rise higher than before in order to tip
off to the evil side. Yes if you are hardcore, nothing is going to
stop you; well, then, since being a `hardcore` is not defined,
quantified, and rare, thus playing w/ human nature of being lazy and
satisfied w/ mediocrity, this strategy will work. Make sense.

# build-in to fail

But even so, there can be million ways to self-serve my technology,
which, if I were the inventor, can not be held responsible because I
just could not know. Think about kids. Any parent can relate million
stories when kid picks up something and use it in a **creative** way,
which in adult's eyes it was purely playing w/ fire! We will yell at
the kid, blame the supervising adult, but also like to hear some
apologies from that manufacturer/inventor, for a emotional comfort I
guess. Why so!?

I think underline there is this feeling of **guilt** when things like
that happen. 

1. Parent feels bad of themselves since they are the one responsible
   for enlightening the kid not to do such thing.
2. They also feel bad that their breed turn out to be absent-minded
   adventurer (and don't all parents think their child is the best,
   smartest, or at least we all hope/wish so, even reality speaks
   differently!?), which is against his/her view of their product.
3. Then, if Eve ate the apple, snake is to be hated, thus the external
   influences &mdash; manufacturers, bad friends, commercials, violent
   movies, and so on.
4. The apple also appears to be in fault &larr; why are you so
   enticing!? If only you taste just bad, then the kid would not have
   taken attention of you!

I don't know. I think the chain can go quite long, and you can see
many echos in these chain that, in different story lines, a couple of
these points are manifested to be the top-level significance, but
eventually w/ discussion developed, all these points (and more) will
be linked and derived, so that essentially this loop of logics keep
repeating themselves. 

This then raises a question &mdash; if we will drag out all these
points anyway in all the incidents, then we really don't have a clue
of what to blame, and how to solve it then! If borrowing a common
cliche in love scene, that if your relationships always go sore in the
same way &larr; meeting the same type of date, had similar process
then similar breakups, then there is built-ins of you is the cause,
because you are the **common denominator**! 

Therefore, parallelly, if we always feel these steps in the logic
above when something goes awry, shouldn't it also point to a built-in
feature of you (or the kid) that is actually the common denominator!? 

I think so. It's not the apple, or the snake. It is Eve herself, who
possessed this sense of curiosity stronger than, say, Adam, thus she
is receptive to snake's talk, thus have a lower bar to become her
version of `hardcore` &rarr; nothing is going to stop her from tipping
off, if it wasn't the apple, the story will be a pear, or a peach, or,
how about an evil watermelon!?... hahaha....

# what's the solution

This leads another conversation. We all talk about social
responsibility, or just responsibility in general. I do think people,
or good people, are responsible people. But then, since we can't not
foresee how a product can be used by bad people, how can I claim to be
a responsible engineer? Are we at mercy of these bad/creative guys who
use our technology for an end which we disagree? and how can we
gain/regain control if we don't like at mercy in others' hands?

In the aftermath of WWII, people pleaded for conscience of bad guys
that they lost common sense and committed horrible deeds. But they
also evoked the same logic to defend themselves that their job/task
was but a screw on a giant machine, what's for the screw to know and
to determine this machines does, and to stop it!? There is question
about information &larr; whether screw is made to be aware of the
machine's function, and his role in it; and another question of
capability &larr; that screw can cripple this machine. Both of these,
are easier said than done, and I think that is the reality.

But there is hope, and hope lies in recognition of free information
flow assisted w/ technology. If you look at the question above, the
capability has an underline message that a screw is too small of a
scale in front of machine. Yet, quantity will change it, because the
machine is composed nothing but all these screws! So when 1 screw
changes nothing, 90% of screws can not stop the machine, it can change
this machine into something entirely different, like transformer!

So how to amass quantity? Brain wash, of course, for one. But I will
never agree w/ that, because it is a top-down approach &mdash; an idea
is **imposed upon** us, not our own ideas bubbling up. The key, is
information free flow. Only by informing this single tiny screw of the
entire machine, of what his role affects the outcome, can the screw
makes a link &mdash; some crew cares, some don't; some makes a link
that is factually right, while others make skewed version &mdash; no
matter! 

Only with this background can one be possible to see result of his
action, even remotely, and start to build a sense of his role and his
effect, and this is the foundation of developing responsibility.

Therefore, technology itself has not right or wrong. It's a tool. User
has built-ins that she can do nothing about, and will manifest on these
tools in a way that was unexpected. That's fine. Human nature, is,
nature. As long as we allow such incidents be reported, evaluated, and
learn to build guards around these past incidents, we are on the path
of becoming responsible. I don't believe there is an end game, like
the ultimate responsibility of some kind, so being on the trajectory
and has the capability to iterate so to approximate an ideal state,
even indefinitely unachievable, is all we need, is all we got. 




[1]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vsMydMDi3rI
[2]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1Mg5_gxNXTo
[3]: {filename}/thoughts/social%20media.md
