Title: Technology and society
Date: 2018-05-02 16:02
Tags: thoughts
Slug: technology and society
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="/images/fuji.jpg"/>
</figure>


I have been thinking quite a bit about technology, and its
relationship to society. I used to be a firm believer, and a
practitioner, of technology. After all, it is what I do, and I
actually enjoying writing code and drawing diagrams to analyze a
problem at hand and to illustrate my thinkings.

# government knows more than we have imagined

However, while reading the book ["Short history the Chinese
Communism"][4], I got a really deep impression that government, after
all, is not as ignorant, as I, or many others, have imaged. This book,
written in 1970s, has a quite good understanding of CCP's historical
events, its path till the writing, its organization, its agenda, and
its main players and who they are and what they do and have done. What
makes it even more impressive is that data are collected from official
channels, eg. gov publishing, party journals, which, in my previouly
__biased__ opinion, is so crooked and abused that nothing is worth
noticing, let alone quoting. But author has made a clear case out of
these, and have illustrated cleared and nicely how the party has
formulated its strategies to get where it is. It certainly had a
critical tone on many of the policies, especially it had zero illusion
of its propaganda and the political objective these tools were used to
achieve. Towards the mid reading, I could almost picture myself being
a party chief or a country lead who thinks not of picture of
individual's life, but an impact on a mass scale that effects will be
counted in generations, and trial-and-error in lights of its being
beneficial or necessary for many while some, well there will always be
some edges cases don't you think?, who will lose and suffer &mdash; so
it's life, so it's always the case, so if the number is small enough
and I could sleep well without losing conscience, this will the price
to pay. Too bad.

[4]: https://www.amazon.com/Short-History-Chinese-Communism-Franklin/dp/0138094187/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1525356168&sr=8-1&keywords=short+history+of+the+chinese+communism

This feeling scares me! I start to understand how these people sitting
on the top of a country/county/province will reason on a
policy/decision. The impact is too remote, and their life are
**isolated** from it so they are essentially operating a joy stick of
a war game killing and all without feeling a pinch. Therefore, it is
not that they are dark minded, well some of them are, but the system
has **prevented them from relating to** the consequence of their
decision. As if a feedback loop is cut, there is not enough
information for them to think otherwise larr; I'm not giving them
execues. But I do want to gain a better understanding of them instead
of just despising them blankly.

So now back on this book. If it is available, someone in the
government would read it &rarr; that means government's knowledge pool
(in a general sense) has these bits &rarr; US has a really good
understanding of CCP, and vice versa &rarr; a looked confusing
decision made by either government is likely based on such knowledge
pool while the mass (myself as one, so are all the Beijing taxi
drivers) will only be baffled because we do not have access to that
knowledge pool &rarr; since gov has an army of smart people (analysts
and so on) to collect, to study these books and information, its
knowledge pool is logically more comprehensive and richer than any
individual's &rarr; its decision can not be dismissed
lightly. Instead, these decisions are logical, strong, and careful,
but the flaw lies in that decision makers are systematically shielded
from negative impact of their own behaviors, thus making them fly
blindly &rarr; decision will be irrational, random, harmful, arrogant,
even ridiculous.

> Therefore, the question is, how to give them a feedback loop?

# on technology

I have been thinking over a lot about the line Siqi said that she is
like mirror, merely reflecting the people around her. I actually
wonder whether this is true to anybody &larr; don't we all be
influenced (tinted or distilled) by our social environment?  don't we
all will adopt the behaviorial pattern, some necessary for a
day-to-day survival, some just convenient (in this social
circumstance)? don't we all learn from peer and others around us whose
acts will inevitably impact our life (work & leisure) so we would have
to **react** to them, thus involuntarily fall into the logical path
that their behaviors have initiated?

This makes me feel that human, as individual or as a mass, is
fatefully trapped in an ebb of force-and-counter-force, which is
exactly why we constantly feel 人在江湖身不由己. Then, what about
freedom of the mind? control of your own life/destiny? be what you
want to be?... are these just illusions one gives to oneself? or the
society/media/government/education has etched into your mind, just
like these communist methods to preach their ideology to the young so
to shape their belief? &rarr; this is a bleak picture, I think.

So, what's the role technology is playing? I mean, is it elevating us
out of this trap, or is it deepening the trap, or just numbing us in a
new way, like a new medicine that promises wonder, but ages later the
generation will be laughing at it because it is made of nothing but
harmless and useless dirt? One way or the other, what is the proof?

# Proof that it is helping

There are plenty. Living standard is definitely much much higher than
before, which was made only possible because of the development of
technology &mdash; count any appliances you can't live without, iphone
included. Well, one can also argue that the standard is measured by
modern men, therefore looking from an ancient prospective, it is worse
than then, not better &larr; well, it is a fair statement. After all,
and adjective is up for debate (see [mid night][1] and
[euphemism][2]). But even for those **organic fever** person,
natural's benefit is only enjoyable if nature's disease doesn't kill
you like they used to, for which we owe to advancement of medical
knowledge, to biology, to methods/workflows/statistics/... that made
these advancements happen. So for that, as long as you are actually
reading this article, you are already an beneficiary of technology,
and your living standard is a fruit of technology.

[1]: {filename}/thoughts/mid%20night.md
[2]: {filename}/thoughts/euphemism.md

# Proof that it is not working

Technology is speeding up information flow, information storage, and
information creation. My perception is that a vast amount of **one-time
data** are being created due to convenience of technology. They do
contain information; but that information will be permanently locked
in itself that they will never be used &rarr; in other words, if we
measure a life span of information from its creation to its demise, I
would dare to guess that 99.99999% of all data that are being created
today will be less than a day, an hour, an instant (can I find a study on
this topic!?). When was a last time you flip through that selfie from
yesterday, or last year's birthday party, or of your ex-? It was
generated, stored (probably multiple copies on the Internet), and
forgotten. Period. This feels like those sad stuff animals. But the
rate of these information, especially the ones in digital form, is
unprecedently higher than anything human has experienced up to the
last 15 years!

So, do we really know what we are doing?

## acceleration of generation crowding-out

One thing I have been witnessing is that an acceleration of younger
generation _pushing out_ those who are less than even 10 years senior
to them &larr; what I called "China's youth culture".  In other words,
the life span of a person's social contribution is under a mounting
pressure &mdash; it's manifest in China that 00s is pushing out 90s,
and 90s was obsoleting 80s, and so forth. Each generation feels a
shortening window for them to be a contributor as worker bees, which
in its reality sense means **you will be viewed as too old to find a
job**. A common reasoning is that wealth has been rising, thus making
leisure a more acceptable life style than a working bee &larr; after
all, who wants to work if one can get a comfortable life without it!?

<div class="center" style="max-width:854px">
  <div style="position:relative;height:0;padding-bottom:56.25%">
    <iframe src="https://embed.ted.com/talks/jared_diamond_how_societies_can_grow_old_better"
            width="854" height="480"
            style="position:absolute;left:0;top:0;width:100%;height:100%"
            frameborder="0"
            scrolling="no" allowfullscreen>
      
    </iframe>
  </div>
</div>

But the ["Grow old better"][3] by Jared Diamond has another point
&mdash; the Internet is now a repository of human knowledge. It
enables the young with access to information that were previously
unattainable unless you were privileged (priest) and old enough
(elders in a tribe).  Btw, they also operate those devices much better
than older generations. Therefore, they should legitimately feel
**empowered** and on par with senior peers. The competitive advantage
of an older generation lies in their **experience** &larr; gained by
internalizing these information and by practicing them (and failed
more times over time). But then, how many in that generation holds up
to that!? Few. Most people are not only lazy thinker, but lazy
practitioner &rarr; they hear, but hearing is not
listening. Therefore, new crops in their 20s are not only equipped
with the same information, but are hungrier (socially), cheaper
(financially), healthier, and can be over-worked without breaking down
or revolution. 


[3]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yPGwA7t6bpI

As a captalist, whom would you pick?

## can information lead to democracy?

Another hope of technology is that information transparency brings
accountability, thus leaning towards democracy. It can be said that
Arab Spring and many others were exactly that. But then, there is the
GFW which we can conveniently blame for its backwardness.

But how about many poor/developing countries/continent whose
population has access to Youtube, but remained to be war plagued,
struggling with basic human needs!? Cambodia doesn't ban Youtube.  But
even those who own a phone are busy making ends meet, and thoughts of
self-education via these only resources have to be secondary at
best. 

And among rich countries, information is not too little, but too much.
Many of them are manufactured, manipulated, false, are skewing mass
opinion under the cover of data analysis, AI, or simply,
technology. If wealth of information is causal to a _good_ society,
then it is not showing its effect. Facebook falls into a fiasco of
Cambridge Analytics. Is it really wrong to piece together a _social
profile_ of a voter in technology so to influence his/her vote? After
all, didn't users give Facebook those data at the first place? and to
ask them draw a line within which their data CAN be used, are they
capable to describe, explain, let alone enforce!?

I used to think there is an arm race between computer technology
(cloud computing comes to mind) and evils like the GFW. I know for
sure technology side will win. But I was also thinking a free
information flow is good for everybody, and will bring enlightenment,
reasoning, you know, all the good stuff. But I am becoming more and
more pessimistic about this view now. 

The goal can be achieved:

1. Access to information.
2. Information is factual.
3. Reader will read this information.
4. S/he will internalize it (understands its meaning/intention).
5. S/he can learn from it.

... the more I'm writing down this list, the more I feel there is no
hope. The condition chain will break down as early as #2!

I don't know. Technology is the best thing we know so far. It's not a
wonder pill, not even a happy pill. It's a method better than
none. Maybe just focus on getting #1 done, and let human carry his own
fate from that point on.

God bless us all.


