Title: Ten years
Date: 2019-03-24 09:27
Tags: thoughts
Slug: ten years
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="/images/metro%2010%20years.jpg"/>
</figure>

I'm scared. I had an uneasy sleep last night, worrying about a lot of
things. In particular, I worried about time, about myself getting
old. At age 46, it seems absurd that I'm feeling old. Yet, that's how
I'm feeling these days, and it is not going away.

I have long realized that ten years is a long time, a long time that
many many things will happen. Actually it is such a long time that it
changes a person, almost completely &larr; looking back myself ten
years ago, the life I had, the state I was in, the look, the body, the
spirit, the activities, the people around me, the person I cared
for... everything, has changed. How alarming! I remember telling Siqi
of this theory while sitting on a stair in Shenzhen after a day's
walking around &mdash; I felt such a wise person to say that, as if I
figured out a secret of life. To her, this must sound like wisdom,
cause her whole life hasn't been counted much in ten-year marks. But
at the time I said it without realizing how brutal this also means,
and how sad it is since nothing can be done to stop time, and nothing
can be done to turn back &mdash; ten years, is such a long time, such
a long time.

But then, last night I started to count how I came to be &larr; if
counting my life in this step, it only takes two ten-years from
mid-20s to where I am today, not much at all really, no wonder I still
remember clearly the days of twenty years ago, still struggle with the
same type of things i struggled twenty years ago, still feel I was
like twenty years ago, though in reality, everything has changed,
everyone has gone. 

Life starts at 0, but the first ten doesn't leave
much since you don't remember. Then the next ten, where Noah is in
right now, he understands some, not much at all, still childish or
child-like, immature, unthoughtful, lost touch of yourself like this
morning that he wakes up early, sitting across the table to me at
Panera doing his homework, but without know why he feels down (beats
me! he is just a moody kid, sometimes I wonder), and how he
should/could handle it, such a clueless, rough age.

Then, we are counting the third ten-year already(!), the prime of
life &mdash; wonderful time, young, healthy, full of energy, full of
possibility, full of dream, hope, fantasy, full of adventure, full of
bad decisions, trials and errors, full of excitements, full of false
feeling of independence, surrounded by supports, from family, friends,
foes, people who want to please you, who want to take advantage of
you, who want to be close to you, who want to fool you, who genuinely
like or love you, who, in most cases, are also in this same period of
life, thus feeling you are all alike, and you are in sync with
everybody, and you are not alone, and you strive to be the same, and
even to stand out. You yearn for being alone, as if the crowd around
you is suffocating. But dear, it's only because you haven't tasted the
truth of loneliness &mdash; you can hardly be alone at this age,
that's why you feel being alone is different, cooler, and wiser. Wait
till the loneliness comes to you, surrounds you, and drowns you. It's
not fun.

Then, the fourth ten-year, 30-40 now. Not bad, family, kid, marriage,
more adult like now, feels life could be like this, forever, busy,
perhaps, career driven, most likely, as if in reach to grab the next
fortune, to become the next world-changing person. But anxiety, really
unimportant trivia like family, wife, husband, kids, all the wonderful
things really, that start to turn color and become a source of
frustration. 

Then, without knowing much, 40s, the fifth ten-year now in life. Boy,
don't I feel old now! I can hardly imagine when I'm in 50s, a common
definition that I'll then be an old guy! My Goad, how scary &mdash;
too quickly, too soon. Before you can be ready (and how can anyone be
ready for this!?), it's here. No more the same body, same look, same
health, same possibility, same hopefulness. Everything seems to be
becoming to its end, slowing down, ramping down, turning off, losing
ground. You look back, quite some miles you have covered; looking
forward, quite some miles ahead. But the fun part of the journey is
over, and why should I continue on then?

So this is life, counting in ten-years, such a short short short
time. Ten years, so long that everything is changed; so short, that
you only could to the fifth to be old. Is life long, or short then!?
It's short, I would say, short for it doesn't give you a second
chance, doesn't give you back what you have lost, doesn't make you
stronger, better, just older, older so that you reason, to yourself,
you don't need that strength anymore.

But the truth is, it's not too long, nor too short. Its only fault is
that there were moments in it that you wish to stay, but can not. Like
the moment we sit at the stair talking about this ten-year marks; like
the trip to this unknown temple that even locals don't visit; like the
recording booth in the middle of this busy, loud, arcade; like the
crazily chilly weekend the cold front hit the city; like watching over
the city night from top of this little hill, feeling the breeze of an
early spring; like riding on the back seat of bus after saying
farewell to the poor little thing who passed in our caring...  if only
could be kept, could be replayed, could be relived.
