Title: Thank me
Date: 2019-01-09 18:55
Tags: thoughts
Slug: thank me
Author: Feng Xia


This is a curious thing. Maybe I'm thinking too much again. So at the
dinner table, two women sitting next to me asked me to open a jar for
her. Sure thing, The there is a girl sitting across to us on another
table said, "turn it upside down and hit bottom a couple times." Well,
I tried first to open it without doing anything, it didn't open. So I
know exactly what it will take, just hit the lid on table edge
slightly, and after that, since the girl was saying so, I turned it
upside down, hit bottom a couple times, and after a few seconds of
struggle, the lid came off. The woman who requested this job said,
"还是小姑娘利害"... errr...

# credit

This gets me thinking, why? why people care about credits? why such a
comment will make me think more than once? is that because it bothers
me? but then, I couldn't care less what she said in return, or whether
credits go to the young girl who chipped in an advice, which I knew
for sure will not work (because this is not a Snapple bottle, and I'm
sure her experience is from that kind of opener), and hitting lid will
leak air, thus balancing air pressure of the jar, and that's what
makes it possible to open the lid. Well, but I won't, and won't be
able to, explain all these to them. So the woman had no sense of
thanking me for the hard work, and the girl said nothing and took full
credits. Awkward, isn't it?

But why did that happen? and isn't there other moments in life that
this exact same scenario plays? How about someone comments how well
doing your son is, and you are happy, because without saying, you, the
parents, own all the credits? 

But is that so, at all? what about his teacher at school? or his
friend at YMCA? or a butterfly effect that any minute affair can just
change your life, so what you have today, see today, is really an
accumulation of all these little events, encounters, combined!? then
what about credits to these people? Even if you want to send them all
the thanks and appreciations, it is impossible to execute. So these
hidden influencers, will not get any credits. How unfair!

This is really strange. But we all know we care about getting a thank
you when you did, or you thought you did, something good. This is
exact the problem of a broken marriage, in which two become out of
sync of who is doing whom a favor, and who owes whom a thank you, or
an apology! Therefore, it's only logical to argue that such
_expectation_ is built in, that it is only natural for you think and
to expect that way, thus, will be disappointed when it doesn't
happen. In other words, the annoyances, or even hate, is a logical
result of you having such expectation at the first place.

But you don't get to choose not having such built-ins at all. Just
like another thought I realized yesterday &mdash; life is such a
misery, that you don't get to choose its beginning, nor its ending (as
of today), then **it will only be extremely foolish to believe that you
have control over the process in between!** 

The truth must be, you don't. So, what is life about? A journey you
are put through, no choice, no option. Then, what's the odds that it
is already written, somewhere, by someone!? Very likely I would say.

# pattern, control

Then, there is another interesting conversation I picked up the  other
day. A nurse at Taikang was commenting that she "figured out" a
规率 of a patient, and this is common in daily conversations. The
speaker usually showed a face of pride, and it is taken as a positive
comment because it feels we now understand a pattern, and feels we are
now in control &rarr; we can next time manage this, better.

This definitely makes me believe, that seeking a pattern, is another
built-in feature of human &mdash; we are actively looking for
patterns, summarizing in order to formulate a pattern, and without a
pattern, which in my mind is a repeatable process or action, we don't
have management. Period. 

But having pattern, or thinking that we have a pattern, gives us a
false sense of being in control! I would simply argue that seeing a
pattern is a clue to figure out a causal effect relationship, but it
does not logically yield better management at all &mdash; and for
being in control, well, I have just said in previous section that we
simply do not have any control. Period.

So, how many of these human built-ins are there, I wonder!? I feel we
know so little about ourselves, that it can leave people like me to
wonder, to 胡说八道, to entertain myself with these words, these
thoughts, and leaving myself a laughing stock for God or anyone else
for that matter.

If only I could even be a joke, so at least it makes someone smile
&larr; wait a minute, then, do I get a "thank you"!??

....
