Title: The wrong elite
Date: 2019-07-02 11:42
Tags: thoughts
Slug: the wrong elite
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="/images/cat%20viewed%20from%20below.jpg"/>
</figure>


Hmmm... this [video][1] is very...disturbing.. and the comments below
are even more so, disturbing.

Before anything, I think this person is a thinker. It's actually very
good, and I think he is very smart and observant, and he certainly is
not following some made recipe &rarr; he is formulating a logic of his
own, which he intentionally (and I think he is very much like me) to
be different from others'. I usually will very much enjoy someone like
this. But, but, his view point, well, is putting me off, completely.

# Geo type

Number one, he has a completely wrong view by making a statement that
US is behaving irresponsibly because it has the gene of a _pirate_
&larr; because this country is next to oceans, and its counterpart is
those countries on land such as France and Germany. This, is
ridiculous!

First of all, US territory is HUGE! It's comparable in size with any
of these so called land countries &mdash; China, Russia... In
particular, it's so much greater, I mean, in square miles, than
France, Germany, that if the statement can qualify those two countries
as so called having the **land gene**, the US will have to bear the
same category &rarr; US is as much as land mass as any of the
countries he is referring to in his talk. 

It's not the gene of the land that drives the policy and decisions,
it's the need to expand (eg. Japan) or to defend your neighbour's
expansion (anyone who has been invaded) that has always been the
driving factor! Yes your geo will make this task easy or difficult,
but the location is much of a God send -- well, you don't decide where
your country lands on earth (in a high-level sense, that's why
countries fight, so to find a better piece of grass!), just like not
much you can decide who your parents are. Think about another case
here, Poland, the poor country has been poorly defended because it is
caught in between the Germany and the Russian. But why the two
countries want to take over Poland instead of leaving it as a buffer
zone between the two giants!?  Wouldn't it be better to fight in
someone else' home instead of your own!?... So my point is,
**expansion has a much deeper motivation than just a shallow view of
continental type vs. oceanary type**. In Poland's case, the
racial/tribal factor and the religious factor have been the real
reason why Russia want to take that land, and even there has been the
historical bully vs. bullied sentiments (that Poland land owner was
really harsh on Russians back then) that played a lot more important
role in the experience of this country than anything else.

# you are born bad

Further, such view point is the same as saying that you are bad guy
because you were born in the wrong family &larr; doesn't this sound
familiar, to any Chinese who are above age 30!? This is entirely
ridiculous as far as anyone can reason! I think it's reasonable to
have a view that all states are born evil, or all capitalists are bad
blood.. that's totally fine, which also makes the whatever derived
conclusion shaky if such view point is weak &larr; and to me, and I
hope to many many others, this view point is not only weak, but is
entirely, **wrong**! History has proven this over and over, and as a
Physicist, as he claims himself to be, this is the same as saying that
Earth is the center of the universe, not because we can prove it to
be, but because all my previous generations say so! ... No! No!
No!... you are all welcomed to make such assumption/statement, but it
doesn't fulfills itself. You need proof, and I mean, sufficient proof,
to back up this statement, and often enough, even in Physics, it is
the cross-checks that will prove or disprove a statement. If we
cross-check US, say, its historical performance/treatment of other
countries or ppl or whatever, wouldn't you then draw the opposite
conclusion from what he just said, that US will be the evil, just like
any other empires that had failed the human race!? 

If we do a cross check, I would say that China will not even see
today's achievements without the US, or Japan, or Europe, or many many
others that are outside China, non Chinese citizens &rarr; thinking of
today's wonder as if China has single-handedly made them happen is
just, completely wrong! So, does it make the US good? bad? .. you tell
me.

# ignoring history completely

It's really strange to use the, what I would call **bogus math**, to
back up a statement &mdash; it took Turky the empire `1,900` years to
achieve what China has achieved in 29 years.... and!? Can this then
lead to the conclusion that China is sooo much better than Turky in
history!? Of course not!

This is the exact version of the story we have all known when we were
little, that a guy eats donuts to fill hunger. When he gets to the
10th one, he feels satisfied, then his conclusion is that he could
have skipped all the nine ones and just eat the last one to have the
same effect!!

This logic ignores the fact that what is being compared carries
completely different weight when viewed 500 years ago vs. now &mdash;
it is an everyday cliche to have wifi and iPhone, but back to 500
years ago these will be the sci-fi maniac talk! So using such a logic
to illustrate how stupid the history was is just, bizarre! Imagine a
high school student makes a statement that "look, I know how the earth
works in one class, and it took Greeks and Newton thousands of years
to figure it out, how smart I am!!!!" Wouldn't you find it, funny!?

China's achievement is based on an accumulation of all the wisdoms and
trial-and-errors that other countries have done, including some
humanity disasters this world has seen, I'm thinking about Russia's
social experiment... this is the same when any kid disregard the
effort the family, friends, parents, teachers, society have put in to
make his success, and simply say "look how hard I have worked, and
therefore I deserve everything I have" ... this is not only naive,
this is purely irresponsible and selfish. Period.


# race to the bottom

This is the worst of all logic. He keeps using examples of Great
Britain and how it broke up w/ US, and US's civil war to justify how
evil US will be we let them help us. Whenever he challenges the views
of other economists who supports US's critism of China's unfair play,
his logic always quotes "look how bad you have been, so stop critizing
me" approach &larr; this is what I call the **race to the bottom**
method, and it is terrible! This logic links back the basis of his
argument that because you have done something evil in the past, you
will always be evil. 

Even more disturbing is that he essentially spins the logic that China
shouldn't play by rules because the bullies (the US and its allies)
defined the rules &mdash; this can be extended to just any scenario in
life, that the rapist is innocent because, well, why did you wear that
type of revealing clothes!?.... come on, get a grip, really. There
will always be rules, and someone get to define them. There is nothing
wrong with this fact. You can disagree the rules and change them, but
by just quoting the rules themselves are the root of evil is completly
circular logic &mdash; again, this is the equivalent to say that you
are a bad guy because, well, you were born by bad parents, and so you,
and your children and children's children will be just as bad.

# self-contradicting, everywhere

The entire logic is just self-contradicting! He claims is the theory
that the rise and fall of an _empire_ is like a body flushing through
cycles. Sure, I take that. 

But then, if this is driving the conclusion that thus US is being
flushed out and China is taking over, wouldn't China be in the exact
same position as the US in, say, 10 years!? Then what!? Doesn't this
theory then predict China will then start to fall!? But, this isn't
the message he is going with, is this!?

How convenient then that he just say, "hey, look, I won't live that
long, and you guys will witness this"... he likes quoting Karl
Max. Max's theory is truly comprehensive that it describes/predicts
the entire cycle of a society, and essentially after Communism, there
isn't none exist, it's the end of road, paradise. But his, by exactly
establish the cycle as he is so proud of, predicts the inevitably fall
of the rise of China, and he **did not address a single line** how
China should act differently to **break this cycle**.. or, should I
even call what it actually is, **the curse**!?

Further, there is always an implication the world is split between
China and the rest, or the US vs. the rest..... he quotes US as if US
people are an unity, therefore whatever technology US has developed is
only by the US people, which are different from, say, the Chinese! How
ignorant this view is!! Especially as a Physicist, this is rather
strange he perceives the world in such a way &mdash; isn't US an
aggregation of, I don't know, hundreds of nationalities, races,
backgrounds, and so on!? Isn't what the technology is, especially the
cutting edge ones, the fruit of brains and collaborations in an
international scale!? Even the ones he is so proud of &mdash; 北斗, or
building jets, are nothing short of a phenomenon that the world is
flat!? **Again, by seeing everything on the foundation of a foreign
origin (physics, mathematics, computer science), and drawing the
conclusion that "I'm the 牛屄est", is just insane**!!! US, China, any
country, is a mix of a lot of different people and ideas. Assigning
credits to a country is simply wrong &mdash; I would say, forget about
describing these things along the line of a country or state or
government. Rather, it's a matter of a stack of brilliant minds that
moved the entire human race forward to what we have today, regardless
the border lines.

Thirdly, he opened his line by saying that the trade war is not a war of
ideology, but then eventually derives to the discussion that China
should ban anyone who "helps US building infrastructure" because it is
a traison &larr; isn't this ideological!?

Last but not the least, it's fine to feel proud of yourself, but it is
not fine to look down your peers/competitors/losers, especially when
the word used is **文明 (civilization)**! No, China is the only
civilization that still beats and kicks and feeling lively. All
these long-life civilizations &mdash; Greek, Indian, or Slavonic, or
Russian, or Native Indian, are just as wonderful and amazing as any,
and **they are not dead!!** What an arrogant view when he thinks only
China is carrying the human torch, like Noah, while everyone else is
lying dead!

# Last words

..... Haven't written something like this for a while. I have to say,
I admire his confidence, but disagrees completly his arguments. I
won't have the same level of logical organization of materials and
thoughts, but I know I will not get to his conclusions, none &larr;
actually knowing this makes me, happier now.


[1]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dTEHB6fOFWc
