Title: Time
Date: 2019-01-30 09:40
Tags: thoughts
Slug: time
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col l6 m6 s12">
  <img src="images/reddit%20cat%20portrait.jpg"/>
</figure>

Time is indeed relative. 

I was talking to Noah about this this morning &mdash; why one feels
the time in the morning always flies by?  Theoretically time is
uniform, it ticks by the second all the time, at the same pace. It
doesn't change over the course of a day, so why morning time feels
short? Well, we are not talking about bad days that you felt like
indefinite long, but just a regular Wednesday morning.

So here is my theory: **I think time feels different because your
brain is operating at a different speed** &rarr; in the morning, your
brain is slow to boot up, thus the constant flow of time feels a speed
train passing you by, again, this is arguably the _perception_ of time
by your brain (exactly). On the flip side, time will then feel short
when your brain is working at a higher speed. The experience will be
when you are in the zone of writing code or doing something, that you
_forgot about time_ and felt it was really short! I'm sure everybody
will echo this experience. Following this logic, the feeling of time
should be defined as an **efficiency factor**, or **density**, or
**velocity**,, of experience, that within a fixed number of ticks, the
more your brain worked and perceived, the higher the density, that the
shorter the time feels. Interesting. I wonder whether this is what
relativity theory says?


So, what is really time? Is it just another aspect of perception like
I have just said. We know it is a complete artificial thing, because
there isn't such a thing called TIME in nature. I like the motto of
Movado swatches that there isn't really 24 hours a day, just a fact
that sun rises and sets everyday, which then defines the notion of
time. Therefore there is a single dot on its watch's face that
represents, sun? and the minute and hour arms just go by it that
simulates sun rise and sun set. How genuine!

Time, thus, is really a human invention, and quite an arbitrary one,
that we divide time into 24 hours a day. Actually this hasn't been
always the case either. We know at different time and by society
people had used different calendar; so many have used different ways
to describe time &mdash; how about bars on a prison wall, or a marks
on a tree bark! They are all indication of elapse of, time! 24-hour
day is just one of many ways human have used, and happens to be the
_going standard_ when I'm writing this. The problem at its core is a
math one &larr; **earth doesn't go around sun in a nicely rounded
integer value** (well, integer is another human invention to describe
nature, so it seems human is caught by his own inventions) So
regardless how we are wishing to give it a good chunk, say 24, or 16,
or 17.5 even, there is always a bit of residual to count in order to
make it **accurate** &mdash; accurate in the sense that what human
makes of it matches what nature shows (think of [solar year][1],
aka. tropical year, that has 365.24219 days, or, be precise,
[ephemeris days][3]). So you, every single **noun** in such statement
is essentially another human invention that is to describe a, thing,
which requires definition, and if only all the definitions are hold
true at the same time, will such a statement be true and meaningful
(well, even the word "meaningful" or "true" requires definition and
scrutiny! How convoluted human language has become!!!!!) In the book
[Seventy Great Inventions of the Ancient World][2], it talks quite a
bit of examples of time, such as the [Maya Calendar][4]. So if you are
not yet convinced that **time is subjective**, read it.

I can't find who said this, that **the root of human tragedy is that
the wise takes every step full of hesitation, while the fool take
every resolutely (智慧的人每一步都犹豫不决，愚蠢的人每一步都步伐坚定)**.


[1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tropical_year
[2]: https://www.amazon.com/Seventy-Great-Inventions-Ancient-World/dp/0500051305
[3]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ephemeris_day
[4]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maya_calendar
