Title: To Nianyi
Date: 2017-08-19 13:21
Tags: thoughts
Slug: to nianyi
Author: Feng Xia
Status: Draft

Hi,

Haven't been a while since I wrote you anything. I'm listening to this
movie while working, and felt I have something to say to you.

I want to say I'm sorry, sorry for being such a ass recently, for not
speaking to you much these days anymore, for checked out from our
family and am moving away. I'm sorry. I feel very very sad. I wanted
to be nice, but there is something stuck in my throat, that made me
not able to respond when you ask me question, when I should have said
things to you and Noah in a nice way, to be patient with him, and you,
and this family, and our situation.

I'm sorry. I don't have those anymore. I lost patience, lost
willingness to save our marriage, lost courage to go through the thin
and thickness of life with you as I have promised. Up to recent week I
still though I had a chance to revive your feeling, and maybe you
could turn around and realize how难得we had come along these many
years, though filled with many happinesses, also moments of laugh,
lightness, fun, love.

But I can't hold on to this wishful thinking any longer. Tian Wentong
told me you two had a chat while in Beijing, and you have already
determined back then. I don't mean to blame in any way. I just wished
you could have told me this earlier. This is the same struggle I have
had with you for the last five years, maybe even longer, that I just
don't know what your thoughts are. I don't know whether it's my being
insensitive thus missed all the signs and cues you must have had for
me along the way. I honestly did not see them. I apologize that I
haven't been smarter than I had been, so I could have been a good
husband and partner, and could have avoided all these stressful days I
have caused you and Noah. I'm sorry.

This is a lost battle. I don't know what could have saved us. I tried
to get away, tried to find love, tried to come back, tried to heal
myself with other women. In the end, I'm further and further away from
you, and you are further and further away from me. I used to think I
could not live without Noah. But now, I sometimes want to get away
from him, too, and this thought scares me. I don't know what is going
wrong with me. I'm sad, just sad. My brain is still spinning as fast
as ever, but my feelings are cold, distant, and sad.

Pls don't blame this on the girls and women I met and brought into our
life. If there were fault and penalty, I should be the one to
bear. Period. They were all loving people with a warm heart and a
lovely soul. I was not in a position to give them what they want. Yet
I didn't resist their intimacy because they made me feel live again. I
have been selfish in this regard; I wanted to. I know what I was
doing, and I made the choices without regret. So whatever they lead
to, such as the moment like right now, I should face it, deal with it,
and live it.

I feel sorry these made you unhappy, if they did. I don't dare to
guess such things anymore, because you are becoming a mystery to me. I
don't even know whether you care, and if you do, why you care. It's
still important to me, but I lost all touch of your inside, and thus
am less than a stranger you are willing to chat on the street.

Such a long time, the past 9 years we somehow crawled through. I don't
know who else can bear with me for this long, and give what you
gave. I used to believe there must be someone who cherish what I have;
but I am not confident of that anymore. I know I'll continue to meet
someone. But the courage needed to tie a knot and to give promise is
thinner than ever. This is sad. I yearn for companionship; yet, I fail
over and over to live in one. What you and I had were the closest to a
family life I had in mind. Love is like soil to me &mdash; one can
live without, but one can't stand without.

I constantly think over the women I had in my life, lovable,
beautiful, regretful. I did good with some, and failed with others. I
had the best chance with you, yet here I am, finding a place for
myself so we will call it over. Noah used to be a string attached me
to this family so I will come back. But even he is becoming a lose
string now. And I always know this is a losing battle if we just
maintain the status quo &mdash; nothing will stop him from growing up
and becoming more and more independent. This string that attaches you
and me, will have be let go sooner or later. Then, what we two still
have left to glue us together instead of drifting apart?

I am tired now, and am old now. I often think of death, and last days
in my life, like a movie rolling in front of eyes. It is not scary,
but too many regrets. I wish I could have known better back then,
could have been less self-confident self-important self-centric back
then, have been older, or younger, when I met you and them, could have
had different personality and patience level when dealing with our
issues back in 2012 and 2013, could have been nicer to Noah and you in
recent months, could have been a less sentimental person, could have
just been an asshole regular common averagely-educated
pickup-truck-driving man so I don't feel or care that much.

I'm sorry I'm pulling away. There is nothing left for me to try. I
used to hate the idea that we are to pay two rents instead of one,
while these money could have been used for Noah's college fund, or a
nice decor in living room. But I realized how weak and unrealistic
such thought is &mdash; it's an engineer's urge for maximum efficiency
I guess. Since there are million other women I'm willing to look at
all live with their own rents and places, `low efficiency` is the
reality, not the other way around. So what to deter us living in the
same pattern then? None. I realized that if we go apart, we each will
start to live our own life, and therefore there is no point to think
about the ridiculous `saving` we could have achieved otherwise.  How
slow am I to grasp this idea when it must have been completely obvious
to everyone? I wish this realization could have come earlier, so I
could have not dragged you along in the last 5 years and caused you
frustration and agony. I'm sorry. I'm learning, just always too late.

Our marriage is not nourished to either of us. Noah is not learning to
communicate, to interact, to handle intimacy, to see a fun smiling
parents together. I feel bad I didn't figure out, nor strong enough to
come over this. I know all these will become so unimportant when
another 10-20 years pass by, just like how we look at the things that
bothered us to hell that many years back. Time doesn't heal; time
doesn't make us forget either; time just makes sense less and less
tender till it couldn't feel much anymore.

Hopefully I will find a place soon so you don't have to look at my
temper and rudeness anymore. This place will still be yours, if it's
ok with you. I wanted to have you pick one you like. But my strength
and my wish to save our relationship burned out. I hate how I'm
treating you and him. So I have to change this by staying away.

Thank you for the marriage, for tolerating me, for allowing me to stay
with her last year, for putting so much in this family and Noah's
life. I probably won't be able to shoulder much of your burden in the
future anymore. So, take care. If in need, I'm still willing to help.

Feng
