Title: Venezuela
Date: 2019-06-26 09:29
Tags: thoughts
Slug: venezuela
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col l5 m5 s12">
  <img src="/images/miracles.jpg"/>
</figure>

A country I only know by its name, Venezuela. Yet it's on the NPR news
these days, and the country is going through some terrible times. The
world feels, turbulent, really &mdash; US policy is aggressive that
it's on _war_ with China, with Iran, with just about everybody, and
there are human disasters, as always, like in this poor Venezuela.

The news mentioned the word, social fabric. This gets me thinking,
more and more these days with a growing age, that the society feels
like a living organ, a living thing, that, like an individual's body,
changes all the time, aging, perhaps, but more accurately, adapting,
constantly, so the word, the form that we know of today, will be so
different 10 years down the road, that some of them even become the
complete opposite! If individual human is already complex, then how
can an aggregation of a lot of them, thus a society, becomes any less
complex? It should only manifest the complexity with more combination
possibilities, therefore more varieties, more alternative path of
execution, and more outcomes/consequences. Maybe there is a
probability one can compute to describe these outcomes. Yet, even so,
it is probability, which inherently means that it is not
deterministic, thus is _not predictable_ (in the sense what we hope a
prediction means).

If rolling back a few years I think I would love to go into social
study. I don't know whether they actually teach or analyze, or some
smart person has already established a theory on this scale, that can
help me to understand better what I see and hear in the news and in
life. Nonetheless, this is a fascinating topic, actually I think it's
a much more important topic than, say, am learning Angular for
work. It is more important because it **is closer to** my life, or a
bigger, more direct impact on people's life, than just me  knowing yet
another programming language and can write an app or two. Maybe this
itself is a sign of my ignarance &mdash; that the grass is always
greener on the other side. I remember this delivery kid in SH metro
while I was sitting on the bench waiting for her. He looked at me
working on the Project Euler problem on my laptop with a strong
interest. since the laptop itself was not nothing fancy, I would
assume his interest came from his curiosity, and maybe the look of the
screen with a few line of codes and such which he perceived as
computer programming, which to him is either a thing of strange, or a
thing of mystery. In either case, for those who don't do computers
certainly think programmers are nothing short of a magician (though,
they think the trick is darn cheap that they can buy them one dime a
dozen!).

So the same applies to my view of the social study, and potentially
some smart genius in that field that has the knowledge and tooling and
experience to solve a social problem, which, to me as an outsider, is
completely amazing, magic, and how wonderful! This makes me wonder,
what if I stick to my own trade, using the tools I know, and the
knowledge I have, wouldn't I achieve the same by moving the social
needle, just a bit, that to the direction I think it's good for the
people? Why not?... I'm not thinking of some social media page
advocating my political view or revolutionary agenda, but something
much smaller, something that is so remote to its effect that there
isn't even a way to measure so that I can only operate in the dark
without ever knowing how much the needle was moved. Wouldn't it still
make my work purposeful? wouldn't it still motivate me? and even it
still do in both questions, since I don't have a so called _direction_
to guide me, how and what should I be working on then?

In many ways I think we have romantized the _good-old-days_, that as
if people back then were so in touch with his/her surroundings (by
thinking that their physical and social territory was much much much
confined than ours), that they could always link their actions to a
cause and to a consequence. I would strong challenge this view. I
still believe the core of this statement lies in information flow
&mdash; if the scope was indeed smaller than we have now, the
information flow was also much limited and vague. Thus, proportionally
an individual, most of them, was also in the dark, and was only
coasting by life, and probably wondering what the meaning of life is,
like I do &mdash; the difference would be that they wrote with brush
and ink, and I'm now typing in a computer (which, in 100 years?, will
be in the same category as brush & ink, and that would not surprise me
a bit!).

So after all these derivations, there isn't answer, there isn't even a
clue. If we think the Dark Age is a European thing in the past, I
would have to say that, as of today, as of now, I feel, myself is
still living in a Dark Age. So is this world, certainly so for the
people in Venezuela, and for anyone who still suffers from seemingly
the basic struggle of food, shelter, safety, being with loved one (not
to mention all the broken hearts from regular loves!)...

I don't know. Something is terribly wrong with this world, with the
state of human, with myself. Just that I don't know what it is, why it
is so, and what change is needed &rarr; such a sense of being powerless.
