Title: What is my value
Date: 2023-02-26 11:27
Tags: thoughts
Slug: what is my value
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="images/DSC_3040.JPG"/>
</figure>

I feel anxious. Worked all day yesterday on the Chinese visa app,
actually made some really good progress &mdash; I can now get data of
an unsubmitted form in JSON, and even parse data out of a generated
PDF! This is pretty wild! I never thought PDF could be parsed like
this &larr; it's a combination of some _structured_ format of PDF and
some visual cue such as "selecting the ones below this element" which
literally draw a box from this element down, and any _element_ having
overlap of this _visual box_ becomes selected! Wild.

But, I feel down today. Running into a neighbour's friend last night
and this morning, the same lady who stopped me some time ago when
there were a homeless w/ some mental issue lingering at the front door
of our building, and apparently he stopped her that night, which
understandably made her extremely nervous when I met her. She talked
and talked, and I was only able to calm her down a bit by rubbing her
back and giving her a few hugs. Then this time, the dog Maggie's mom
was found on the floor of her apartment, and she called ambulance, and
now Maggie's mom in an intense care and lost all conscience... sad,
just sad. I don't even know their names, but news like this get me
every time. I wonder, maybe deep down I'm feeling the anxiety of time
and change that are so inevitable, that more and more I wish
everything around, everyone around, would remain unchanged,
unaffected, neither going up or going down... but that is not
happening. Instead, faces I know are disappearing, or waning, or
experiencing some hardships, which leads me to feel that the same
hardships are coming closer and closer to myself... I think it's
probably my character, that I don't like the slow process if I could
already see the end of it. Almost like how I was working on this app
yesterday, that I couldn't stop until I flushed out most of my
thoughts, and while doing it, I had to ask myself to stop because I
knew I was already tired and work was slowing down, but still, I
couldn't. So in a sense I felt I was digging a hole for myself to jump
in, an accident I planted seed to happen... and that is a terrible
feeling, of myself.

Even though I like the progress I made, and I know there are good
values of these for the business, but I don't feel a strong sense of
achievement at all. Instead, I felt I was repeating the same _tricks_
I have done many times &larr; repeating the same "what I already
know", only yet again jumping through all the hoops, and fell on the
way coming... this is, tiring. I know I could pull through those
_unknowns_, but to research, to experiment, to learn, is becoming very
expansive, mentally, to me... I still enjoy figuring things out, but I
dislike it at the same time, and the pull on the disliking end is
becoming stronger and stronger. I guess fundamentally I'm scared.

Laying off was mostly a relief. This makes me planning the trip much
easier. But this also creates a dilemma because now any delay feels to
be my sole responsibility &larr; before this I could have excused
myself by quoting _the work_, _the company_... anything other than
myself would be at fault... but no more. Now everything is under _my
control_, and I feel weak in front of all the todos, and all the
things-not-yet-done. I hate myself being the _slacker_, or the coward
who doesn't face these things right on. What should I do? It's easier
to say _one needs to reconcile with oneself_, than done.

2023, so far, is a year of me feeling at a crossroad &mdash; on the
one hand, I know exactly one thing I want to do &mdash; to take care
of dad, and spend some time with mom. Then on the other hand, one
depends on another, and I keep avoiding to look at this dependency
chain and start from the bottom up. Coward. I feel tired, mentally,
very much. The three years of working remote has created me a
preference of being invisible, aloof, alone. This, just like anchors
of life becoming less and less strong, then, with each person in life
fades, whether this person is close to me or not, another line
snapped, and now less and less those anchors are holding myself in the
air, and I'm afraid that one day, when either all the anchors are
broken, or a strong wind comes my way, it would have nothing to hold
me down anymore, and I would be blown away, gone.

Is this depression? Maybe it is. I'm scared, and I don't like myself
being that way.
