Title: What a day
Date: 2017-05-13 09:10
Tags: love
Slug: what a day
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col l4 m4 s12">
  <img src="{{SITEURL}}/images/funny/depression.jpg"/>
</figure>

I was sitting in this underground little food court, breathing the
muggy air, eating a spicy food, watching people coming in and out,
full of life, full of noise, full of hope. Yet, I kept wondering that
everybody here has one type of headache or another in their lives,
just the same. But how ignorant we are of each other. We judge
people's mind from such a shallow observation, yet have no mean nor
much interest in knowing what they really are. The only thing we know
is that they must have something that bother them, make them sad, make
them happy, make them mad, make them forget the life troubles for a
moment, and make them fall into a sinking feeling late at night that
they felt giving it up.

That's how I felt. The two weeks have been a tough time. I knew it's
coming. Mentally it's such a sure thing that I felt watching a train
approaching a station, however slow it may be, it is coming, and there
is no other way out but to deal with it. Facing reality is difficult,
not only of his deterioating health, which is rather natural and
inevitable, but to realize what is lost is loss, and there is no
turning back the clock. All the old memories flushed through my brain
and choked me without mercy. There it is, there they are, look at
them, yes, look at them, because regardless whether you are looking at
it or not, it is staring at you in the face, and that's the reality.

How sad. I felt I wasn't going to make it. Where to begin? and where
to end? I lost it in this storm without the slightest understanding of
what went wrong and why it happened so quickly, so thoroughly, and so
painfully. It's hard. This is really hard. I could only tell myself to
keep pedaling, keep head above the water, keep breathing, keep the old
routine as a string attached to the life I know and I like, to keep it
sane. Such a lonely fight. Not that I'm afraid of taking it on. There
is nothing to be afraid of, what will come will come, what will leave
will leave. I followed my instinct, my experience of the best
I-know-how, and I know I can survive even it's a lost battle. Yet, the
process is too hard. I can understand now people in depression will
take their lives just like that. It's easier, really. Not that there
is not hope, but the path to get there, to get even closer to that
hope, is hard, too hard to bear, too hard to imagine, too hard to
recall, too hard to be forgotten.
