Title: What is engineering
Date: 2019-02-21 10:22
Tags: thoughts
Slug: what is engineering
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col l6 m6 s12">
  <img src="/images/raise%20a%20bug.png"/>
</figure>

I have been thinking, and probably being pissed off at the current
status of the work, that whether the concept of engineering in my mind
is the problem, or what I perceive is correct and it's the others who
are not getting it.

So, what is engineering? I recall back in high school when we were to
enter the application for college. Being a naive spoiled kid back
then, I had no idea what I wanted to do, nor what myself is or can be
good at. I remember my dad told me that after meeting with my teacher
班主任, the guy felt I could be good at engineering. "What a nonsense!"
I thought. I had no idea what engineering requires, had little
interest in engineering (though my parents both were engineers), and
certainly didn't think myself fit that profile at all &mdash; Noah's
absent-mindness everyday constantly reminds me what I was like back
then. So if anything, I was as far from being a good engineer as an
engineer could possibly be.

But, things change, I guess, and people do change (! what a
surprise!). Growing up I found myself being more and more intolerable
of the non-detail-oriented person and things, and wanted everything to
be fitting in an organized way, in a well-oiled smooth operation, and
taking proud when things work, and feeling frustrated when things
aren't. 

When I draw diagrams, I like things to be **aligned to grid**, and the
connectors snapped to another shape so they will move together without
shifting position. I will make sure all labels have the same text
alignment, both vertically and horizontally, and shapes in a row must
be evenly spaced, and lines must be consistently the same size, so are
the fonts, and so on and on. And Powerpoints, I can't believe how many
times engineers, who have been known to be non-artistic type, are
willingly to propel such bias against themselves by delivering a slide
that is ugly because details such as alignment is not even right!!!
You know, whenever I saw something like that, I wanted to
**scream**!!! &rarr; for God sake, you call yourself an engineer, and
yet you can't even get a slide right, how could I trust you to build a
next jet engine, or write code claiming to be good quality!? 

You know, I firmly believe in **consistency** &larr; I think a person
is, and must be, and better be, consistent, which means that if you do
your laundry messily, have a messy car, I will simply discard you for
being possibly a good engineer. Period!  Because things like this
speaks a threshold of tolerance of mess &mdash; all the ones I just
mentioned tell me that you have a high tolerance of it, which, well,
in engineering, I believe is a terrible news.

What is engineering then? At this point I believe engineering is
everything to fit together and work as it should. In GRE we learned
the trick that whenever you see an answer says `everything`, it must
be wrong, because there isn't such as possibility as
`everything`. Well, engineering is exactly trying to achieve this
impossibility, and that's why it is hard, very very very hard. When
I saw emails or heard discussion that "oh it's broken, let's fix it",
I just want to shout it out that "come on guys! what is broken? how is
it broken? how did you judge it is broken? what is the reference of
`not broken`!? what is the thought/analysis/guess of why so? and any
ideas how to rule out possibilities of cause and find the problem? and
any backup plan if we fail to find the cause, any action we can take
to isolate the problem? or to alleviate it?"... I don 't get it,
really! To me, a vague statement of "it's broken" is **not only
meaningless, but aggravating, and honestly, I think it is the problem
itself!!** &rarr; exactly because of the mentality of such non-detail
oriented statement (I would go even further to say that whoever makes
such statement is completely irresponsible, in engineering term!),
will, and must have, driven the work and process that has created this
problem at the first place!

I'm amazed how many times people are rushed, or willingly rush into, a
work without considering left and right how many pieces we are dealing
with, how these pieces can fit together, how they can go wrong, what
is the assumption, how to verify these assumptions.... These types of
questions pop to my mind as soon as I start hearing even a faint
proposal. Yet, for many, I do mean, many many many, others, they don't
even occur to them, never bothered by them, and then get everybody,
the whole team, into a fire drill mode, as if this is what engineering
is about &mdash; putting out fire because things are broken!

Yes, things being broken is the constant status of engineer's life;
**No**, if fire is not becoming rarer and less severe, we are not
engineers, we are criminal who is setting out fires, for ourselves, so
to keep us employed, and appear to be busy!

What a BS!

I'm really curious how they had built Golden Gate Bridge back then? or
the Sydney Bridge? or any of those enigneering marvels!? How could
they pull it off with work of hundreds, thousands, of people/labor,
yet, the things all came together, fit! Looking at them, you will see,
engineering.
