Title: Where
Date: 2019-10-30 08:24
Tags: thoughts
Slug: where
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="images/huili.png"/>
</figure>

I had a dream, so real, that I had you in my arms, and I buried my
head in your hair, kissed it, smelled it... oh how much I love you, my
dear, how much I miss you. You didn't say a word, but you smiled, so
beautiful, so real.

For the first time in my life, I hated to wake up, not just resent,
but hate. For the first time in my life, I couldn't tell what was real
and what is a dream. For quite  a moment I was sitting there on the
couch, not knowing what to believe, not knowing how to feel, because
it was so real, but it was only a dream.

Where are you? Are you safe? Are you having a good time? ... if only I
could know where you are now, and how you are doing. You know, I
looked up your [hometown][1] yesterday. It looks like a cute place,
not many people (400,000 by the wikipedia), far far away, to the south
near 云南, sounds exotic... and the most important thing is, it was,
you.

Isn't this fate, that I keep running into girls coming from that area,
who always left a mark on me, from the first one I met, to you? I
don't know. Maybe there is fate. I didn't believe it; I'm not sure
I'll believe it now. But yes, there is, and for us, I wish I could
have changed it.

A rainy Wednesday, not cold at all, actually rather warm, reminding me
the weather of 昆明, maybe it's also like this in your hometown. I'm
planning to visit it this time. I don't know what I expect to
see. Just walking down the streets, or sitting in shops, dreaming that
you may have been here also, would have been good enough for me. For
how much I yearn to make another link w/ you, w/ your life. If fate is
like two threads, I wish ours will interwind again, tie a knot, and
never open. 

So for the wish of this year, I wish, I could see your place, find
your footsteps, hear the sound you have heard, breathe the air you
have breathed, live the city you have lived, taking pictures as I go,
not for memory's sake, but to show you, someday, some way, or to show
God when I see him, that, I miss you very much, I love you so dearly
that I keep dreaming, a life, that you and I are nearby.

[1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Huili_County
