Title: Why read books
Date: 2021-04-05 10:32
Slug: why read books
Author: Feng Xia

> "If you only read the books that everyone else is reading, you can
> only think what everyone else is thinking."  - (via
> dryyoureyes-startbelieving) (via katetbk)



On my way out this morning to jog, I suddenly realized why I started
to read more and more books. The backdrop is that I have been watching
this prime video called [Couple Therapy][1]. It's a reality show that
four couples showing up in a psychiatrist's office, talked about their
relationships, struggles, feelings, and all that. Boy, isn't being
together hard!? Yes it is! And this exact conclusion was going through
my mind, not only while I was watching the show, but when this morning
I was going downstairs to jog. Suddenly I started to realize why I'm
reading more and more books these years.

The common cliche, of course, are two. First, you start to be
interested in, say, history, and with aging, you have more life
experience, thus can understand better the complexity of historical
event &rarr; more interesting now to read them, and to appreciate the
intricacy of the time, the characters. Second, you have a stronger
urge than when you were younger to have something, knowledge in this
particular discussion, to impress your audience. You can label it
vanity, middle age crisis, insecurity, and the like.

But my question is, why? Why so? I think there are underline currents
that actually is driving the two. The first one is easy to understand
because it's much to the fact &mdash; you do gain more experience,
whether you like it or not, that you can relate what happened back
then more and more to what you had experienced, thus you often even in
the shoe of the character in the story, and you would inevitably form
an opinion based on what you would have done, have thought, have felt,
if you were there, were him/her, and all these brought the story
closer to you, almost making them personal. When you were young, you
might have an imagination of being so-and-so while reading a book, or
watching a movie. However, regardless how you have identified w/ your
hero, all heroes are more or less the same to you as a kid, because
they are all external &larr; your admiration, or willingness to become
them, is not based on how much you two were alike. On the contrary, it
was based on the exact the opposite &mdash; what they have, you don't
have them, be it a super power, a way to fly, or the cool gesture.

Once you aged, this round of being close to the character again is
different. Instead of being rooted in the difference, it is now
founded on overlaps &mdash; empathy. You feel the pain, feel the
panic, feel the hopeless agony, and all these speak an underline theme
which, like a ghost, has been hovering over your head all along, you
fear it, but don't know what to do w/ it &mdash; **all these in the
book isn't far from you**. They are pretty real, to the point that you
can picture yourself going through them, not because of an
imagination, but because of the slow progress mankind has been
making.. oh boy, isn't it too slow sometimes!? Reading Dicken's may
sound really remote to us living in Chapel Hill these days, the child
labor, the mills, Oliver Twist, orphanage, but here it is, in the
headline news, you see it happening right in front of your eyes,
somewhere on this planet, there is an Oliver Twist, living the exact
poor condition, going through the exact same life journey, and many
times theirs are even worse than the book. This makes history not an
external fantasy anymore, but another version of the reality &mdash;
we can call Oliver the British version of the same child labor abuse,
while the news of those poor country or the ones trying to escape to
America across the border, the Mexican version, and all these
versions, have the same story line. And that, makes the click.

Regarding the second point, I used to think it's more driven by
vanity, you know, the eagerness to brag in front of your friends and
dinner table guests. But then, putting aside the possibility that
there are people who are just vain, born to be a bragger, it still
leaves the question of why many, when they are getting older, are
motivated to read? I admit there is a voice on the back of my mind
when I read a book, that I could picture speaking certain lines to
achieve some admiration stares. But that alone isn't enough to explain
the drive. If being able to repeat author's opinion as if it were mine
is the primary goal, well, unless you have a good memory, the only
alternative would be to study and take notes, treating these
books/lines as that English word you were to repeat thousands of times
in high school. But I'm not doing that. So out of all the books I
read, less than 10%, well, I would dare to say, less than 1%, left any
impression on my mind &mdash; I couldn't recall what the author said,
what the arguments were, any particular line I could quote, or even
where it is on my bookshelf! The all likely destiny of them is that I
only remember I read them, and with a high probability I never
finished them! Sad, isn't it? So, doesn't this then make my reading
these books a vain exercise? I think it does based on these,
symptoms. But, I think there are more.

First, loneliness. I keenly feel the older you are, the lonelier one
becomes. Not only you have less and less time to social, but you are
more and more living in a setting that are segregated from others. For
a large chunk of your younger years, you are immersed in a group
environment, schools, clubs, and on. All these, on the one hand,
downplayed your individual identity, as you being always identified as
part of a team of some sort, thus the team's identity is the _super_
set of yours. On the other hand, it **forces social interactions**
which is the necessary starting point of making friends, knowing
somebody, meeting someone, and falling love. Therefore, it felts quite
natural and effortless back then that you were hardly alone.

But that is not the case once you grow up. Once you step out of
school, you start to gain more on the individual level, but lose on
the group end. Your family, your house, your this, your that... all of
these, are identifying, and emphasizing, you, as an individual, and is
separating you from a group. So back to the book topic. We all know
reading a book is like conversing w/ the author. Here it is. When you
don't have someone to speak to, but the social necessity still exists,
**reading book is a replacement to socialization**! Therefore, these
books are like, a pet, or prostitute, that they come to you whenever
at your will, and will go away whenever you dismiss them, no
responsibility on your end to make them happy, but they server you
100% wholeheartedly! What a selfish picture I am painting! But that's
exact so, isn't it? So I guess at the end of day, a person is selfish,
and that trait must manifest somehow. If it were not manifested as a
nasty boss, or a criminal, then it will manifest itself in a cloak of
reading a book, as if civilized, high cultural, and respectful, but is
really the same deal.

Now switching gear to another point. I think the older one is, the
keener one realizes too many things in life are out of his/her
control. When little, we thought parents are our backbones, and their
house would stand behind us forever, then untill one day you realize
they have grown old and weak, and their house needs your repair,
instead of being your invincible castle. Then, marriage, this couple
therapy, is revealing that an intimate relationship grown out of
intense love may not be robust, either, and they often collapse in the
end. So all these would make you realize the only thing you could rely
on is yourself. Thus, reading a book, giving yourself knowledge, or
new sensation, or whatever, as long as the object is yourself, is more
reliable than putting yourself out there hoping to be supported by
someone else. So even reading book is always linked to educational
value, the true comfort isn't the value of knowledge, but a
realization that you are on your own. This, of course, is tied to the
previous point of loneliness. This is the 2nd face of the same coin,
if you will &mdash; I'm lonely, I feel no support by others, thus, I
fall back on myself, and reading book is my method.

So, books, as long as a human is going through the life journey as I
have described above, are really a loyal companion, a safety net, that
save you from falling apart completely. It's not a tool to improve
yourself, well, it may be the outcome, but rather unintentionally, but
a life boat saving you from drowning by the life's misery.

[1]: https://www.amazon.com/Couples-Therapy-Season-1/dp/B07XB7XNLJ
