Title: Will
Date: 2020-04-14 12:58
Slug: will
Author: Feng Xia


<figure class="s12 center">
  <img src="images/will.png"/>
</figure>

Contacted attorney for a will. Boy, writing will is the sole process
that will reveal, and make you utterly, how lonely you are in this
world &mdash; when you are faced to pick out a name to take care of
your aftermath, I flipped through my contact list over and over and
over, but no name jumps out.

No, not Noah's mom. Period. The trust is gone, over. But then, who? I
thought of her, but then, she is so far away, and by the time I'm
dead, where will she be, and how much does she still know me then?
Does she know that I want to be put to death if the illness is too
dragging? does she know that I don't want to be put in box and buried
in the ground, but instead, finding me a bushes of flowers w/ plenty
sun, and just put me there, together w/ the plant, and may a breeze
brush me away? does she know that I'm afraid of pain, not really
afraid of death, but will have many regrets if the person I want to
see is not there? does she know the things I didn't put on paper, but
has always been on my mind? does she whose name I want to hear in the
last moment, the face I wish to see in the room, the smell I'd like to
have? does she know that by dying I wish to make some feel the pain,
while for others, no sorrow? does she know I want a simple ceremony,
with only the ones I wish to see, I cared, leaving them each a small
letter, with all my thoughts of the individual, how much I missed
him/her, and how much sorry I am that I couldn't have been a better
person for them?

I don't know where to start w/ this will. Too many are not yet
written, and don't know how to write them down, when these thoughts
only emerge once a while, in the lights of a midnight, when I was
sitting by the hotel window in Tokyo, in the lobby of the summer palace
temple in Nagoya after the ceremony, in the moment I sat on top of the
南山 in the evening w/ her, in the blinding numbness when I was
watching people driving by after Ray just died.... too many... I don't
know who can know me that well to make this will, mine. 

My will, is to forget me, or forget me not. 
