Title: Witness of an Age
Date: 2021-09-16 16:20
Tags: thoughts
Slug: witness
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="images/patriotism.jpg"/>
</figure>

This has been lingering in my mind recently. I don't know how to put
it. Reading the book [The Making of Tomorrow][1] kicked off the train
of thought that the root cause of this thinking is the idea of
[collectivism][2], which, in the author's view, [nationalism][3] is
but the ultimate phase of a collectivism.

I have long been surprised, first to myself, then by others since I
learned the idea, that the so called state, or a nation, or one's home
country, the one that everyone seems to hold so dear that it is often
analogized to one's mom, a figure which is highly sacred, in theory at
least, that **demands** one's love, one's devotion, dedication,
gratitude, as if the attitude towards it/her defines who you are, is
actually quite a recent thing! In other words, I have never given too
much thought where this sacred figure came from. Taking it for
granted, I, probably like many many others, regardless their
education, nationality, background, family, and so on, are _born_ to
consider myself being part of this body, this thing called _my home
country_, if not because of any particularly external advocate through
school or others, it is self-evident by you being one's **citizen**, a
legal stamp of your membership.

But, what is it? I'm not here to talk about [citizenship vs. the
people][4] abuse. Rather, it's the patriotism, the wonderful ideal of
devoting oneself to his/her country's sake (usually in the name of
defense its well-being, well, this word _well-being_ is the tricky
part, isn't it? How do you define that?), whose foundation is the idea
of a country, a nation, or a state. Reading the [On Liberty][5] and a
few others, the fundamental discussion if the line drawn between the
rights of an individual and the rights of his/her community. Exactly
because there is such a group, an individual is now always on defense
to **its erosion that he exchanges too much of him own for too
little**. But why so?

If taking this conflict as an abstract question, it's easy to see
quite a few loop holes in this challenge. Let me list them:

1. If an individual doesn't have any right to begin with, then there
   isn't such a struggle of exchanging them for something, isn't it!?
   For example, slavery. One solution.
2. Vice versa, if the state is deemed having no right to begin with,
   it is not in position to trade, either. For example, the western
   mountaineers who give no damn of any authority because they simply
   don't need anything in return.
3. Now, if the trade is inevitable and possible, being that both case
   1 & 2 are not impossible, then a trade is a trade, meaning it
   follows the dynamics of any other kind of trades &mdash; both bring
   something to the table which the other party likes to have, but a
   power struggle is always the true drive that whoever is in the
   **more powerful** position is to benefit more.

So now, moving these three into the sphere of an individual vs. a
State, we could go to case 1 or 2, but highly unlikely these days. The
[book][1] actually contributed this to the form of production we are
using these days, that the mass production and mass collaboration make
your life without the support of a massive supply chain, which
essentially is the other name of your State, is impossible. I won't
survive a week, or even a day, if I were **unplugged** from my
environment. Period. Where do you get food, water, gas, heat, clothes,
shoes, shelter? Just strip yourself and go into any nearby woods for a
week, see if you will come out alive. I bet you won't. Therefore, such
production form requires collaboration, which in turn can only happen
when **N persons are organized into a group**. The more advanced the
product is, the bigger the group becomes. If you look around, you will
see that the so called advanced society, or progress, or development,
or civilization, its trademark is its growing size of group! This
isn't even a population topic. This is sheer driven by the production
need, thus what used to a family surviving on his own land, then
became a village/tribe huddling together, maybe even w/ walls now, to
then a town, then a state, then a country, and recent years a global
economy &rarr; you see, the trend is clear, the size is growing larger
and larger, the dependency becomes not only necessary, but stronger,
remoter (from yourself), and there is not sign it will abate, yet.

Therefore, now looking at the trade we are to do &mdash; on one side,
is yourself, a person; on the other, a blob, God knows how many people
there, called a State, or maybe one day called Earth vs. Star 908
&mdash; the key is: **the power is extremely unbalanced**. By sheer
number, you are outnumbered a few millions to one in any case. By
resource? forget it, you are a cave man waving a rock while the other
party pulls out a gun, and you also know he wants your stuff... How
awkward, or even, pathetic, you should feel if this is a real trade!

And this is exactly the trade everyone of us is entering, upon
birth. Since the founding of the US, at least we have one case, in
which the small guy is bold enough to claim, that your gun can't just
overpower my rock without damaging your conscience &larr; **call this
a bluff**! But this is the one bluff we have, and takes courage to do
that! Seriously. What alternative do you have besides such a bluff!?
Pray for the other guy to not use the gun? Well, it seems that both
are appealing the same assumption, or should we say, hope, that the
other guy has some restriction, whether it's a conscience, or one
thread of goodwill, or his fear of his mom, whatever, there is
something in him that we can appeal to so that the trade isn't based
on gun vs. rock, but on the value of the goods, thus a _fair deal_.

But, honestly, we don't know. Bluffing is probably the first move, but
also the only move. For all the small guys, upholding this bluff is
the only choice, no other! Some are so stupid that why not join the
big guy? Well, remember, this is the trade you can't switch side. This
is the same scenario that had been played out over and over and over
and over. If the big guy's determination is to get you, well, by being
a Jew and a Jew collaborator to the Nazi's will not gain you freedom, or
life, at all. The trade is not going to happen. The robbery is to
happen. It is just delayed when you cave in.

Therefore, it's painful to me to witness China's nationalism on the
rise these years. I think the people should be proud. Yes they have
achieved a lot. But, like a humble guy rising quickly to fame, without
having a good mind, he is lost in the sudden fortune and all the
flashlights. Not only he thinks he is indeed a genius deserve the
fortune, but he now looks down on everyone as if they were downright
lazy and stupid &larr; this, is not pride. This, **is
arrogance**, and a large chunk of the heads over there are displaying,
and many are firmly believing in, such arrogance.

What creates arrogance? Ignorance. But, how to define this? Even if it
were defined, how to, remove it? I have no idea. Education? Nah, it's
just yet another word, a creed, a magic bullet that means nothing,
having the same emptiness as the word ignorance. So, it seems to me,
it's doomed, the fate of the world, and the fate of the country, and,
the fate of its members &mdash; when one party is believing nothing
but fist, a fist is the only signal his brain can process. I'm not
advocating a war between China and anyone. But I do want to point out,
that the mindset, or the world view, is such that:

1. There is always us vs. them. If you are not one of us, you must be
   one of them.
2. You either kowtow to me, or I kowtow to you. No 3rd state exists
   (how about sitting together to have tea!?).

As long as the mindset is so, I don't see any possibility to make a
conversation. But the sad thing is, while Chinese crowd is so
motivated by [patriotism][6], they are willingly giving up the bluff, the
bluff I have stated above, which is the only saving grace an
individual can have to counter the State. In other words, if the
little guy's defense is his bluff, the big guy, instead of waving his
gun outright, suddenly pulls out a shining stone and say, "Look my
friend! Isn't this beautiful? It's yours now!".... too good to be
true, right? This is the same thing that the Monkey king was put on
his headband, quite a good looking thing, until you put it on and the
code is in someone else's hand.

And this, is exactly I'm witnessing &mdash; the shining thing is
called [patriotism][6], [nationalism][3], whatever the name it is, the
effect is the same, too many Monkey kings are now blinded by it,
eagerly putting it on, calling of his/her bluff.... oh people, it is
coming, trust me, if the guy entices you w/ this, he is to recite that
code next, you don't need to guess, it's not part of the plan, it is
THE plan. And just like Monkey King's headband also, once you put it
on, you can't remove it.

Sad, frustrated, and pure, utter, stupidity.




[1]: https://www.amazon.com/Making-Tomorrow-Raoul-Roussy-Sales/dp/B00005WC9T
[2]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Collectivism
[3]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nationalism
[4]: {filename}/thoughts/capitol%20riot.md
[5]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/On_Liberty
[6]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Patriotism
