Title: Worster Woman
Date: 2025-05-10 08:31
Tags: thoughts
Slug: worster woman
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col s12">
  <img src="images/DSC_9281.JPG"/>
</figure>

This is, suffocating! What is going on? What is happening to this
country!? In this country!? By this country!? Woke up this Saturday
morning, another beautiful weather, another nice, sunny day, another
weekend of relaxing, driving Noah to swim, and myself taking care of
some chore and catching up some work day, another openeye coffee time,
mingling with a crowd, hearing the chatting noise in the background,
watching the young UNC girls coming in and out studying, another life
is beautiful, worth going through, at least for one more day.

But, watching the video clips of this Worster woman against this crowd
of, gangsters, Gestapos, mafia, vallians, scrums of a human race,
wearing a uniform, but hiding their face, and power, and shame, and
humanity, and a thing, anything, that makes a human a human, behind a
black mask, then pushing a woman to her arrest, overpowering her,
what, 30 to 1!? 50 to 1!? one million to one!? This is not just
upsetting. Yes, it makes me very very upset. But upsetting is too kind
a word describing what I am watching. This is outrage, this is, crime!
How ironic, as it has always been in human's history &mdash; the
bullies always appeared in a uniform, as if that piece of cloth, is
all it takes to justify the mean &larr; and I do mean, **mean**, yes,
**mean**, mean as in their method, mean as in what is surging through
my mind and my heart, mean as in the character of these dark shirts,
mean as in what had fallen upon us &mdash; by the "people", for the
"people", and apparently, by some "people", to some "people",
selected, singled-out, treaded upon, pushed to the ground, hand
cuffed, scream silenced, plea ignored, child robbed, justice.. what
justice!?

There is no people!!!! There has never been people!!! They are not
**my people**!!! Who are these monsters!? Who are they!!!? Are they
some gen-ai-ed robots!? Please tell me YES!! If only then I could
absorb this scene, and live with this so called the human race. How
can this be!!? How!!?? I read before that there had been warning siren
sounded in the air all along, since the founding of this country,
since the first ink on the Great Charter, since the idea of
Rousseau, of Martin Luther, of Kepler, of the Republic, of Socrates,
of all the sages and thinkers who had led this human race penetrating
the darkness of superstition, of religion, of what is of a good
vs. evil, of what is right vs. wrong, of what is a society and its
citizen, of what right one has vs. yield, of a contractual obligation
between the governed and the governance, of what is the distinction of
beauty vs. shame, of where we, this, _race_ (I'm feeling so shamed of
using this word now, just exactly who we are now!!?), are heading,
should head for, and "yes, we can do it".

But. Can we still, anymore!? Brutality, ignorance, brain-washed pure
hatred, groundless assault, crowned with pleasure, pride, my duty, my
job, my patriotism... really!? After, what, two hundred forty-nine
years since July the 4th, 1776!? after the Common Sense of Thomas
Paine!? after a World War II? after exactly eighty years from Hitler?
How forgetful we all are! How shameful we all are! How ridiculous we
all are! Not long ago, Brown Shirt was a badge of "glory" turning a
person into a machine. Not long ago, White Robe was a code of
fraternity turning a cult into a mafia. Not long ago, Green military
dress and a small shining Red button turning a country of billion
people into a mad house. Not long ago, we saw these, all of these,
happened! documented! video taped! broadcasted! discussed! taugted in
class to our next generations! wished they had never happened! wished
they would never happen again!

Then, this!? I'm not surprised at all of how a human can turn against
another human w/ no sympathy, no empathy, no reservation, no mercy
&mdashh; human, if can be called a living form on this planet, is the
worst of all animals, because, somehow, we have a brain that can be
persuaded to justify **any act** one can dream of, any. We call
ourselves _moral_, and determine that having it is THE difference
between us and _them_ -- cats, dogs, horses, sloths, fish,
turtle... Yet, this exact word, this exact part of a person, moral, is
the secret to success, by the tyrants, by the emperors, by the
Himmlers, by the Lenins, Starlins, Kims, Trumps, Worster polices, and
endless such scrums yet to come.

What a thin line! What a fragile defense! What a small buffer the
history had constructed, with life and blood, with pure heart and
belief, with tears and agonies, with vows and hope, that we would
never, ever, make the same plunder again, commit the same error again,
tolerate the same act again!? Yet, flood broke all dams, all banks,
all sandbags, all wishes. Just like how it plays out in nature &mdash;
water and fire, when standing in front of them, a building, a trench,
a barrier, an individual, is, utterly, nothing. I have always awed by
the power of the earthquake, the tsunami, even the seeming gentle wave
caressing an ocean beach. Now I'm awed by the power of hate, of
division of "we" against "them", of the power of the medieval
intolerance and purge, of the power of Nationalism and its spawns, of
the power of stupidity of us all, of how close we are no better than a
cave man &mdash; we call them the Croods. We, are the Crood.


I just realized, 2025, is marking the 30-year from my coming to this
country. I remember the first week in Chicago, still jetlagged, and
curious of this brave new world. Riding the harbor cruise in Chicago
downtown, I couldn't yet appreciate the night scene of Chicago
downtown and all what this land has to offer. I knew there is a good
life, called hope, ahead of me, but had no idea what it could
be. Then, Lei, looking over the side of the boat, said, "If I ever
came to here even as a tourist, I would then jump off the boat and
start swimming to shore. Isn't this beautiful!?" I couldn't understand
much then. I felt surprised why he would take such an _extreme_
measure for this &mdash; yes it's nice looking, but really? jumping
off a boat for this? Then, with years living here, having family, kid,
life, I had convinced myself that, scenery aside, big buildings in
downtown aside, affluent society aside, there is an idea, a moral
line, a everyone is equal in front of law, a we have a system in place
to prevent, ban, eliminate, a king ruling w/ his free will and
like. We, citizens, rule, and that's the idea, the spirit, the core
ideal, the backbone of all these 80s-looking un-modern town, road,
bridge, hotel, life, about, and that's the environment, the best a
parent can give, to his child. I can't I have been a model citizen in
any practical sense to be proud of. But I can honestly look at myself
in the face when I die that I did my part, carried my share, lived by
my heart, and tried the best I knew how. But now, I feel the glass
castle, I should say, a sand castle, is disappearing right in front of
my own eyes! What is going on!? What place will Noah have? This? This
is the best I can give!? This is the best of a promise, coded in the
constitution, guarded by the check and balance, pledged when we put
our hands over our heart?

The most recent line I picked up echos loud, 人间不值得. Indeed. With
a 人间 with such an ignorance and unenlightened, we are fooling
ourselves that human has progressed. We took a small step so far, and
still standing at brink of an abyss, ready to fall, fast.
