Title: YMCA
Date: 2019-11-19 15:51
Tags: love
Slug: ymca
Author: Feng Xia

<figure class="col l8 m8 s12">
  <img src="images/frown.jpg"/>
</figure>


I start to like coming to this YMCA lobby for work in the
afternoon. Coming here a bit earlier than Noah's pickup time, and I
can sit here just breathe the atmosphere, watching people coming in
and out in their gym clothes, listenning to a light music in the
background, tempted by the White Oak coffee right across to my table,
putting feet up on the bench, with a high ceiling of, I don't know, 20
fee or more, and knowing that at any minute I can go to see Noah, or
the kids will just come out to get their snacks here w/ their
counselor... all these thoughts, make me, happy, relaxed happy.

It was cloudy in the morning. But the temperature has been rising over
the day, and now there is sun, though it's getting close to be a
sunset now, so the Sun feels rather, relaxed also, that it beams its
heat here and there, but also dancing w/ this music, here and there,
no agenda, no purpose. Then, I thought of you.

You know, you have always been giving me this feeling that you should
have a life just this &mdash; happy, warm, relaxed, surrounded by
things and people you love/care, just wondering here and there, no
agenda. I think you will like this place. I can almost hear what you
will say if you were here. Well, maybe not. I used to knowing you so
well that I could tell what you would say. But not anymore. I don't
know what you would say, but still, I think you will like it &mdash;
the high ceiling, the concrete floor, the coffee shop w/ no customer,
the people walking by, the kids in the lobby, xmas decorations, wood
frames that brings warmth, the bench I'm sitting on, and the life,
filled w/ holiday airs, maybe the music could be better, like playing
the list I have collected over the years since you introduced me this
app since we first met, but still, it's nice, and I wish you were
here, to experience all these.

I don't know. Will there be a day that someday, you will be sitting
here, and thinking of me, thinking what I would have said or written?
You probably never would, nor guess that I have written all these to
you. It's ok. Everytime I went to the Reader's Corner for books, I was
always wondering how the owner of those books would feel that now they
are lying in this shop, picked up by strangers like me &mdash; so many
books had handwritings on the front page saying "Dear who and who, I
hope you will like this book... Love, who and who". Will the giver be
disappointed if s/he knew that the person this book was given to has
not dumped it to a second hand book shop for almost nothing (and too
often I heard "I'm moving" "I'm cleaning the closet")? But when it was
still a gift, maybe even in a wrap, it carried so much thoughts, so
much expectations, so much, likes, loves... it's sad to think this
way, isn't it?

But still, I'm writing down these because they came to me, the moment
I was closing the car door, feeling the sun's warmth on the head, you,
came to my mind &mdash; always, always, when there is a breeze, when
there is a blue sky, when there is clouds floating like a group of
cottons, when there is a tune, when there is clinkings of cups and
utensils from a coffee shop... always, always, always, I wish all
these that make me happy, belong to you.

I miss you very much.
