Hi,

If you are looking for a candidate of a technology expert and strong
project management acumen, look no further.

I have been in the IT area for 20+ years. From embedded system,
high-performance computing, cloud, full stack, migration of legacy
system, I have done them all. With seniority grows I have been taking
on more and more of team management role. However, I kept myself
hands-on because I wanted to be subject expert of the task at hand so
that my lead were practical, efficient, and down-to-earth.

In the past years I have been tech lead of a system security startup,
a PM of a mid-size ERP software company, a Managing Director of a
technology consulting firm overseeing a $3M contract, a System
Architect of a global firm w/ two published reference architecture
papers still in production today, and recently a Principal System
Architect and Director of a data security firm. I can fairly claim
that I know a lot of technologies and can learn new ones quickly. I am
a top level expert on software development and deployment, and am good
at streamlining workflows and processes, defining SOPs, so to improve
the whole user experience and resource utilization score. I feel
equally comfortable working w/ a developer who has a specific
programming bug to resolve, and w/ an executive who focuses on program
strategy and roadmap, because I have been in both roles and know
exactly how to communicate well in their individual context.

Devils are in the details. I would like to learn more of this
opportunity and the challenges you are facing, see if my skills could
bring solution or suggestion to the table. If so, I am confident there
would be some aspects of the issue I could provide that will move the
needle forward. Looking forward to hearing from you soon.

Best regards,
Feng Xia
