    ï»¿Ever since I was born,I longed to adventure. Adventure to
somewhere far. As far as The Tree. Now, I get a chance to pursue my
dream. But first, I had to go to military school. Military school was
hard and strict. Before our actual lesson,we had to do many warm ups
such as push-ups, sit-ups, hand-stands,and many mental excersises such
as meditating, taking deep breaths and other zen compitions. One day
we were doing our normal practice fighting when I noticed that one of
my classmates were arguing with the coach. almost nobody argues with
the coach.At night, I found the mushroom who was arguing with the
coach during practice fighting. His name was Wooshroom and that he
argued with the coach because he liked martial arts better than
man-made weapons. after the introduction, we went to gaze at the stars
from the pasture outside the arena.  Orange Mushrooms hold olimpic
games in the arena. After a few hours gazing at the stars, Wooshroom
and I went back to our dorms to sleep. The next day at 7 in the
morning, I woke up and went to the pasture for MY daily excercise. I
met Wooshroom and another orange mushroom behind him. The orange
mushroom behind Wooshroom was called Cap for a mushroom cap. Cap was a
student of the best science university called, The University of
Science. He could map any land except for remote areas. Cap is also a
blacksmith of weapons such as magical melee weapons. The three of us
became friends and for the rest of the year, we set a goal to never
leave our friendship. On graduation day, we were very proud. A few
months later, we were moved to the kingdom.

    We recieved news that the
village we had our graduation was being raided by our enemy! We quikly
grabbed our weapons and rushed to the village to counter attack the
enemy. The enemy was strong and well trained. They surrounded us and
our fellow troops into a tight circle. I tried to heave through the
opposing army but I got pushed back into the circle. Soon, we would be
goners. "Find a weak spot in the circle!" Cap yelled. "It looks like a
small bubble!" That wasn't hard to find because I already made one. I
started to heave through out of the circle again and this time, it
worked! The rest of the battle was that the enemy retreated because we
broke out of the circle and killed three quarters of whats left of the
opposing army.  After the slaughter, I saw an enemy mushroom running
torward the kingdom were the mushroom was caught and locked in a cell
under ground were he was forced to tell us why his race of mushrooms
attacked the village. He said that his king wanted to know wether the
kingdom is weak or well-prepared. I was about to ask why his race
needed to know if we are well-prepared or not when a voice boomed
through the under ground hallway. It was king Albert! "You may go and
tell your king that the kingdom isn't prepared for the strike force
yet."he said in a soft voice. We let the prisoner go and he hurried
out the cell, swiftly got out of the dungeon, and ran as fast as he
could out of the kingdom. King Albert said that supplies were short
and that we needed supplies to repare the kingdom. King Albert said
that I am the chosen one to go out and find resource. He said that I
can choose two friends to come with me on the search. Albert said that
I have 24 hours to find two friends to go with me. That task wasn't
hard to do.I asked Wooshroom and Cap if they wanted to join me on the
search."Of course it's a yes."Wooshroom exclaimed."Defiently"Cap
said.I visited King Albtert and he bid us three a safe journey. 

    We had
permission from Cap's teacher to use the weapons that were created by
Cap. Cap took his favorite dagger along with a map and a firstaid
kit,Wooshroom took the electric spear, and I took the sword of magic.
We went into the woods and at least ten miles deep, we found scratch
marks on the trees,guts on the ground,and bodies of green mushrooms on
the ground. The sight almost made me puke. Later we found a cave with
the letters S.O.S printed on the roof. Wooshroom suspected that green
mushrooms have been here."  Is there another way that we can get to
the other side of the cave?"  Cap asked. "No"Wooshroom said. We whent
into the cave but to only find a dead end with giant crystals on the
side and a pool of water. We found a jackpot of iron and lots of
steel. Cap said that this was the Cave of Jewels. In the Cave of
Jewels there lived a tiger. We camped there at night. At 12:00,
Wooshroom heard a roar and then woke me and Cap. "Whats the matter?"I
whispered "What is it"Cap whispered loudly. "Its a roar I heard in the
cave. I woke both of you to know."Cap said in a frightened
voice. "lets keep our guard up and stay alert."I said sharply. Next,
we heard a boulder rolling down the path we came from. The boulder hit
the entrance we came from and blocked our way out. Next we heard a
roar. A very loud roar from deep in the cave. We grabbed our weapons
off the ground to face the threat. The threat didn't come but another
roar came. This time, it was louder. The roar grew louder and louder
each time it roared. when it roared for like the fith time, it felt
like it was in front of us. After another roar, it was defiently in
front of us. The tiger didn't really look like a tiger. It looked like
a saber tooth tiger. The one in a book I saw when I was little. It had
two long teeth and it was a feerce hunter. hunted anything but blue
mushrooms. The saber tooth tiger growled and then leaped for me but I
dodged. It slashed at my left elbow and landed a claw on me. The saber
tooth tiger kept trying to kill me when all of a sudden the sound of a
whistle came into the chamber. The tiger's head lifted up and ran out
of the chamber. "Well that was dangerous."I said with a relief. The
boulder that trapped us inside the cave was removed and a nobly figure
came torwards us. As the nobly figure came torwards us, he became
clearer and clearer to see. The mushroom that was walking torward us
was King Albert! I didn't believe my eyes at first but it was really
him! "What are you doing here?"I asked. "I have come to tell you that
we need you, Cap,and Wooshroom to guard the kingdom and lead the
defending army against the green mushroom army. We are calling this
defensive operation 'Save the World'"Albert said in his nobly voice.
We were headed back to the kingdom for preparations. The recourse we
found in the Cave of Jewels was immedietly made into armor and weapons
for all the defending battalions. The weapons included swords and
spears. Shields were built to provide protection to the troops and to
the kingdom as defenses. Me, Wooshroom, Cap and some other orange
mushroom generals were the leaders of a battalion. Each battalion was
at least one-hundred or two hundred men strong. Each battalion had men
with swords, shields, spears, and bows. As we and some other generals
gave out a speech to ALL the defending men. "We must defend the
kingdom at any cost or else the kingdom will fall and become
rubble. We appreciate your help to defend the kingdom.This defending
operation is codenamed operation 'defend' The king". With the final
words, the troops went to their defending positions. The archers were
stationed on the kingdom walls while wood-made catapults stationed at
the front of the kingdom gates. The footmen stayed on the ground in
sections. The spear men covered the swordsmen who were in front to
guard the spear men whom didn't have a shield. At dusk, the invading
army finally appeared with a charge. The fist ones to attack were the
archers and the catapults. The catapults fired medium sized boulders
that tore the invading army into two parts. One of the parts was a
very small part with about fifty men strong compared to the second
part which probally had at least one-hundred men strong. The rest of
the deaths was caused by boulders and archers. The fifty men strong
part was easy to demolish because I joined the fight with my
battalion. Most kills were caused by the archers. The catapults
stopped firing because the attacking army was to close to
them. Instead, they took their swords and joined the fight. The
one-hundred men strong was harder to defeat because the king was in
the fight to with a couple of his second-in-command generals. After
the fifty men strong army got defeated, me and the rest of my
battalion went to join the fight. We started attacking from the rear
of the rest of the attacking army. Many troops died and later on I
would find Wooshroom wounded on the battlefield. We've encircled the
rest of the attacking army completly. All the troops surrendered to us
but the second in command and the king wouldn't give up. Instead, he
did what all mushrooms feared and that was the 'Blade Swing'. The
'Blade Swing' is a move were a soldier takes a sword and spins it
around until they cause a mini tornado that can destroy a whole
army. It can only be mastered by a king or a high command. As King Dew
did this, he didn't succeed because I simply faked a punch. Then
afterward, he blamed one of his generals for punching him. This caused
a fight were all of them surrendered and brought to prison. After
that, I found Wooshroom against the broken kingdom wall. He had a
wound that was severe. Later I found Cap with a few minor cuts on his
left arm, a scar from a sword that reached from rib to hip, and a big
cut in his cap. We both heaved Wooshroom into the ER for surgery. Cap
went to the docter for checks and I tried to find scars on me. I found
one that was on my leg. It didn't look like a cut. It looked more like
a bite. I went to the ER to figure out what it was. before I even got
to the ER, I started to hear sounds in my head. The sounds in my head
were snake like sounds. I pulled myself together and concentrated on
what was the thing to do. I went to check on the palace and found King
Albert sitting in his throne drinking water from his dew drop. He
questioned me about how was the kingdom and how many deaths. I
answered his question and he told me to write it down. So I wrote it
down.  3000 dead 6000 wounded 1000 left/sick or minor wounds 10000 men
total After the note, I gave it to Albert. He said when he dies I
should take over for my loyalty to him and my strength.  Ten years
Later...  Weeping People. King Albert died of a fever. I remembered
his words. "When I die, you will become king."He said. I then took
over as king as a young age. The age of thirty-four. I do not know
what joys or sorrows lie ahead of me but I do know one thing, I won't
let King Albert down.

    Epilouge I am still king. At this old age, I don't think I can run
the kingdom by myself. But I still do. I've fought many wars with many
victorys but I always seem that the kingdom has very few people. I am
at a very old age right now with a typewriter in-front of me. As I
type very slowly, I always think about the bite I found on my leg. I
don't hear voices that much but I still wonder how I got it.  -The
Author
