If you are looking for a candidate with strong software development
experience and research capability solving complex
problems, look no further.

I have been doing software development for over 20 years. I am a
full-stack developer with strength in frontend (React), DevOps,
GitOps, and infrastructure. I am familiar with nearly all domains of a
complex software system, both from technology aspect and from
development life cycle aspect. In one project at Lenovo I was the UI
lead responsible to deliver work in Angular and React.  In another
project there I was the team lead working in Python Django, Ansible
and Helm. At Lucidum, besides system architect design, I also wrote
code for React frontend w/ Redux, Selenium and Cypress for e2e
testing, Groovy for Jenkins, Terraform for IaC. For code quality
control, I was designated the primary code reviewer responsible for
all PRs across 50+ GitHub repositories. Working at UNC School of
Medicine I created their first Docker deployment in production, and
was a main driver of their DevOps projects. These give the confidence
that my skill, both broad and up-to-date, can create value by
whichever focus I need to work on.

I'm good at approaching challenges when no solution has yet to be
found. I was a seeding member of Lenovo's cloud-computing research
team. We were to create a solution for data center market from the
ground up. In that period I published two Reference Architecture paper
on Lenovo's website, worked with a team of 12 engineers on prototype
and refinement. One of these designs became "Lenovo Open Cloud
Automation" (LOCA), the first cloud-computing software offering by the
company. It was featured in Mobile World Conference 2019 in Barcelona,
and won a substantial commercial contract.

I am confident that there are much value I will bring to this
position. I will be looking forward to having an opportunity to engage
a discussion, and exploring how I can contribute to move the needle
forward. Please do not hesitate to reach out.
